Python Software Foundation Announces Python Version 2.1.3
=========================================================

Maintenance release confirms support for Python 2.1
###################################################

FREDERICKSBURG, VA -- April 8, 2002 -- 

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) has announced release of version
2.1.3 of the Python programming language and standard libraries. This
maintenance release confirms the PSF's commitment to supporting older
Python versions.

"We're happy to offer this maintenance release. This is not the latest
and greatest version of Python, but it introduces several important
improvements for people who prefer to continue running Python 2.1,"
said Guido van Rossum, creator of Python and president of the Python
Software Foundation.

About Python:
#############

Python is a powerful object oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of Open Source
contributors, under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.

Python's unique blend of simplicity and power excels in a wide range of
business and research development tasks, including the construction of
web applications, complex business solutions, and large desktop
applications.

"NASA is using Python to implement a CAD/CAE/PDM repository and model
management, integration, and transformation system which will be the core
infrastructure for its next generation collaborative engineering
environment. We chose Python because it provides maximum productivity,
code that's clear and easy to maintain, strong and extensive (and
growing!) libraries, and excellent capabilities for integration with
other applications on any platform. All of these characteristics are
essential for building efficient, flexible, scalable, and well-integrated
systems, which is exactly what we need. Python has met or exceeded every
requirement we've had," said Steve Waterbury, Software Group Leader, NASA
STEP Testbed.

Python significantly increases programmer productivity over languages
such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic. The language's global user base
is estimated in the hundreds of thousands and is growing rapidly.

Key features of Python include:
###############################

- Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
- High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
- Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
- May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
- String and regular expression processing
- Extensive XML and web services support
- HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
- HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
- GUI development and multimedia services
- Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
- Restricted execution security option
- Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling,    image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more

Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE,
and many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the
language and associated standard libraries.

About the PSF:
##############

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization devoted
to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python programming
language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to Python.

Additional information and downloads are available at `www.python.org 
<http://www.python.org>`_.