May 31, 2003

Press Release

SOURCE: Python Software Foundation

**PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION (PSF) ANNOUNCES PYTHON VERSION 2.2.3**

*New release enhances powerful programming language*

*FREDERICKSBURG, Va., [May 31, 2003]* -- The `Python Software Foundation <http://www.python.org/psf>`_ announces the
release of version 2.2.3 of the Python
programming language. This maintenance release introduces over 120
enhancements to the language and its extensive standard libraries.

"This new minor release of Python provides users with a collection of
carefully selected improvements. It is an important part of our commitment to
maintaining widely used stable versions of Python," said Guido van Rossum,
creator of Python and president of the Python Software Foundation.

Python is a uniquely agile programming language that significantly increases
programmer productivity over languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic.
The language is used in mission-critical applications by hundreds of thousands
of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user base is growing rapidly.

"RealNetworks uses Python extensively for the infrastructure of the Helix
Community (`www.helixcommunity.org <http://www.helixcommunity.org/>`_), including
our Python-based build system Ribosome (`ribosome.helixcommunity.org <http://ribosome.helixcommunity.org/>`_)
and our Python driven test player (`pyplayer.helixcommunity.org <http://pyplayer.helixcommunity.org/>`_).
Python has been a great choice for us; it has offered us flexibility and
robustness and has made it possible for us to write modular, easily-maintained
tools. We're very happy with the results," said Rob Lanphier, Helix Community
Coordinator.

Other companies using Python include The New York Stock Exchange, Google,
Philips, Hewlett Packard, Rackspace, Industrial Light and Magic, NASA, Disney,
Compaq, and AstraZeneca.

**About Python** 

Python is a powerful object oriented programming language that is developed
and maintained by a global community of Open Source contributors, under the
oversight of the Python Software Foundation. Python's unique blend of
simplicity and power excels in a wide range of software development tasks,
including the construction of web applications, complex integrated business
solutions, and large desktop applications.

Key features of Python include: 

- Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
- High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
- Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
- May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
- String and regular expression processing
- Extensive XML and web services support
- HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
- HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
- GUI development and multimedia services
- Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
- Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling, image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more

Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE, and
many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the language
and associated standard libraries.

Additional information and downloads are available at `www.python.org 
<http://www.python.org/>`_. 

**About the PSF** 

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization devoted to
advancing Open Source technology related to the Python programming language.
The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to Python. Additional
information on the PSF is available at `http://www.python.org/psf <http://www.python.org/psf>`_.