Python Software Foundation (PSF) Announces Python Version 2.2.2
===============================================================

New release enhances powerful programming language
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FREDERICKSBURG, Va., October 22 /PRNewswire/ 

The Python Software Foundation announces the release of version
2.2.2 of the Python programming language.  This Maintenance Release
introduces a number of enhancements to the language core and its
standard libraries.

"This release is an invaluable upgrade for all Python and Zope
users, offering increased stability and robustness.  I am grateful to
the Python and Zope community for contributing literally hundreds of
bug fixes to Python 2.2.2," said Guido van Rossum, creator of Python,
president of the Python Software Foundation, and Director of
PythonLabs at Zope Corporation.

"Python has been an integral part of Google since the beginning,
and remains so as the system grows and evolves. Dozens of Google
engineers use Python, and we're looking for more people with skills in
this language," said Peter Norvig, director of search quality at
Google, Inc.

Python significantly increases programmer productivity over
languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic. The language's
global user base is estimated in the hundreds of thousands and is
growing rapidly.  Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh, Linux,
Unix, OS/2, WinCE, and many other operating systems. Full source code
is available for the language and associated standard libraries.

"Python continues to be Zope's *Secret Weapon*," said
Rob Page, CEO of Zope Corporation. "Zope is Python's *Killer
App* because it showcases Python's power and flexibility in
building world-class Content Management Solutions."

Key features of Python include: 

- Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading 
- High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding

- Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules

- May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM

- String and regular expression processing

- Extensive XML and web services support

- HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols

- HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling

- GUI development and multimedia services

- Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation

- Restricted execution security option

- Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling,   image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more

About the PSF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
programming language.  The PSF holds the intellectual property rights
to Python.  Additional information and downloads are available at
www.python.org.

About Python
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Python is a powerful object oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of Open Source
contributors, under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.
Python's unique blend of simplicity and power excels in a wide range
of business and research development tasks, including the construction
of web applications, complex business solutions, and large desktop
applications.

About Zope Corporation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zope Corporation is the leading provider of enterprise content
management solutions based on the open source Zope application server
and its new Content Management Framework (CMF). Zope Corporation
rapidly creates and deploys high-performance content management
solutions that are scalable, reliable, and easily maintained. Source
code is delivered with their systems, so clients have complete control
over their software. Customers include Fortune 1000 companies,
newspapers and other media, telecommunications firms, government
agencies, the military, educational institutions and Internet
businesses. Zope Corporation is backed by Opticality Ventures
www.opticality.com. The company is headquartered in Virginia. For more
on Zope Corporation and Zope visit www.zope.com.

**MISSING** 

Lois Snitkoff

Zope Corporation

540-361-1720

lois@zope.com