September 23, 2003

Press Release

SOURCE: Python Software Foundation

**PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION (PSF) ANNOUNCES PYTHON VERSION 2.3.1**

*First maintenance release for the latest Python*

*FREDERICKSBURG, Va., September 23, 2003* -- The `Python Software Foundation <http://www.python.org/psf>`_ (PSF)
announces the release of version 2.3.1 of the `Python programming language <http://www.python.org/>`_. This minor
release introduces a number of enhancements based on two months of
experience since release of version 2.3.

Python is a powerful and agile programming language that significantly
increases programmer productivity. It is very easy to learn for
programmers of other languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic.
The language is the basis of mission-critical applications used by tens
of thousands of companies and organizations worldwide, and its user
base is growing rapidly. Python is increasingly used in large system
development to decrease software costs, mitigate risk, and meet
aggressive schedules.

"Python is under constant development by hundreds of programmers around
the world. This maintenance release brings important bug fixes from the
community to all users of Python 2.3," said Guido van Rossum, creator of
Python and president of the PSF.

Python 2.3 is currently shipping with latest Apple's OS X release, and
plays a key role in the technical infrastructure at companies such
Google, Industrial Light & Magic, NASA, The New York Stock Exchange,
Philips, Rackspace, RedHat, NASA, Disney, and many others.

For more information about Python 2.3.1 or to download it, please visit
`http://www.python.org/2.3.1/ <http://www.python.org/2.3.1/>`_

**About Python** 

Python is a powerful object oriented programming language that is
developed and maintained by a global community of Open Source
contributors, under the oversight of the Python Software Foundation.
Python's unique blend of simplicity and power excels in a wide range of
software development tasks, including the construction of web
applications, complex integrated business solutions, and large desktop
applications. Python is often characterized as an agile language that
promotes speedy development and includes a unit-testing framework for
building more robust applications.

Key features of Python include: 

- Object orientation, modular name spaces, exceptions, and multi-threading
- High-level dynamic data typing and very late binding
- Tight integration with C, C++, and Java modules
- May be compiled to Java byte code for use in any JVM
- String and regular expression processing
- Extensive XML and web services support
- HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, IMAP, NNTP, telnet, and other IP protocols
- HTML, MIME, base64, binhex, uuencode, and other internet data handling
- GUI development and multimedia services
- Unit testing, profiling, and documentation generation
- Available third party modules for database access, math, 3D modeling, image processing, LDAP, WebDAV, jabber, MIDI, and much more

Python runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Unix, OS/2, WinCE,
and many other operating systems. Full source code is available for the
language and associated standard libraries.

Additional information and downloads are available at `www.python.org 
<http://www.python.org/>`_. 

**About the PSF** 

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is a non-profit organization
devoted to advancing Open Source technology related to the Python
programming language. The PSF holds the intellectual property rights to
Python and plans to fund portions of future development of the
language. Additional information on the PSF is available at `http://www.python.org/psf <http://www.python.org/psf>`_. To make
a tax-deductible donation, please visit `http://www.python.org/psf/donations/ <http://www.python.org/psf/donations/>`_.
Company sponsorships are also being accepted.