**Python Software Foundation Launched**

*New Organization to Promote Open Source Programming
Language*

LONG BEACH, CA March 6, 2001 - At the ninth Python Conference, Guido van
Rossum announced the launch of the Python Software Foundation (PSF).
Modeled after the successful Apache Software Foundation, the PSF's mandate
is to provide educational, legal and financial resources to the Python
community.  Responsible for holding Python's intellectual property, the PSF
will also act as an educational resource, maintain the Python website, and
foster Python user groups.

The fastest growing programming language, Python is open source,
cross-platform and easy to use.  An elegant, highly readable language,
Python's strength is object-oriented scripting.  It is used for cutting-edge
applications by leading technology and research institutions such as:
Carnegie Mellon University, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Los
Alamos National Laboratory, and NASA, to name a few.  Hundreds of thousands
of programmers are using Python around the world today, and the number is
growing steadily.  More information is available at `Python.org <http://www.python.org>`_.

"The community enthusiastically supports the creation of a single,
focused organization to help further Python's development and adoption,"
said Guido van Rossum, creator of Python speaking at the Ninth International
Python Conference.  "For example, the PSF will be involved in encouraging
Python as a beginner programming language in secondary and post-secondary
institutions."

"We're committed to the support of Python and to its use within the
business community," said Dick Hardt, CEO & Founder, ActiveState and the
newly elected President of the PSF.  "The PSF will enable Python's growth
within commercial and educational organizations and provide a great resource
for Python programmers of all levels."

"The `Apache Software Foundation <http://www.apache.org>`_
showed that an independent, non-profit organization can be a catalyst for an
entire community.  We think the PSF will do the same thing for Python by
facilitating contributions of intellectual property and funds on a sound
basis," said Greg Stein, core Python & Apache developer and member of both
software foundations.  "The PSF puts control of Python in the hands of the
community that develops it."

The Board of Directors are: David Ascher, Paul Everitt, Fredrik Lundh,
Tim Peters, Greg Stein, Guido van Rossum, Thomas Wouters.

Founding sponsors are ActiveState and Digital Creations. 

The PSF is a non-profit corporation whose membership is composed of core
Python code contributors and sponsors.  The PSF exists to promote and
protect Python interests.  Organizations and individuals interested in
contributing please contact the PSF President, `Dick Hardt <mailto:Dick@ActiveState.com>`_.

Media & Analysts Contact:
`Lori Pike <mailto:LoriP@ActiveState.com>`_, ActiveState

(C) Python Software Foundation 2001.

The Python Software Foundation is a trademark of the Python Software
Foundation Corp.  All other company names herein may be trademarks of their
respective owners.