Python 2.1 - final release
--------------------------

    *Note: This is no longer the most current Python
    release.  See `Python 2.1.3 <../2.1.3/>`_ for a patch release
    and the `download page </download/>`_ for more recent
    releases.*

The **final** version Python 2.1was released on April 17, 2001.
See our (gulp :-) `press release <press>`_.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

- What's New in Python 2.1 by Andrew Kuchling describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.0 <../2.0/>`_.
- `Full release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ with detailed lists of what was new in each alpha, beta or candidate release.

Download
~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download Python-2.1.exe, the Windows
installer, from one of the `download locations <#locations>`_
below, run it, and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to
complete the installation.  (Python-2.1-Debug.zip is a set of DLLs for
Windows developers compiled in debug mode; it contains nothing of
value for regular Python users.)  After downloading and installing
Python 2.1 for Windows, you may also want to download and install
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, an
add-on with many Windows-specic modules (e.g. COM
support), plus an alternative development environment, Pythonwin.

**Mac** users please go to `Jack's MacPython Page 
<http://www.cwi.nl/~jack/macpython.html>`_ for downloads. 

**All others** should download Python-2.1.tgz, the source
tarball, from one of the `download locations <#locations>`_
below, and do the usual "gunzip; tar; configure; make" dance.

**Red Hat Linux** users may also try to download the `RPMs <rpms>`_ made available by Sean Reifschneider.

Download locations
##################

- Python.org: `HTTP </ftp/python/2.1/>`_.

`MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums
############################

.. code-block::

    2ba2baeccd6100a4be80e6368a975054 Python-2.1.tgz
        e78b2efb6d3c00db1704105c25f4d6a9 Python-2.1.exe
        65627f0ac87d88fd1091cb418bff5fb7 Python-2.1-Debug.zip

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `Browse </doc/2.1/>`_ HTML on-line
- `Download </doc/2.1/download.html>`_ (choice of HTML, PDF, PostScript or LaTeX)

Bugs and Patches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To report a bug, always use the SourceForge `Bug Tracker <http://sourceforge.net/bugs/?group_id=5470>`_.  If
you have a patch, please use the SourceForge `Patch Manager <http://sourceforge.net/patch/?group_id=5470>`_.
Please mention that you are reporting a bug in 2.1!