Python 2.2.3
------------

We are pleased to announce the release of **Python 2.2.3
(final)**, on May 30, 2003.  This is a bug-fix release for
Python 2.2 and supersedes the previous bugfix release, `Python 2.2.2 <../2.2.2/>`_.

    **Note: there's a** `security fix </news/security/PSF-2005-001>`_ **for SimpleXMLRPCServer.py.**

Download the release
--------------------

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.2.3.exe </ftp/python/2.2.3/Python-2.2.3.exe>`_,
run it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete
the installation.
Windows users may also be interested in Mark
Hammond's `win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

**Linux users** may find source and some binary RPMs on the
`RPM page <rpms>`_. Debian packages are available
directly from the Debian project, under interpreters (new
releases initially appear in unstable).

**Macintosh** users can find binaries and source on 

Jack Jansen's
`MacPython page <http://homepages.cwi.nl/~jack/macpython/>`_.
(MacOS X users who have a C compiler can also build from the source
tarball below.)

**All others** should download `Python-2.2.3.tgz </ftp/python/2.2.3/Python-2.2.3.tgz>`_, the
source archive.  Unpack it with
&quot;tar -zxvf Python-2.2.3.tgz&quot;.  Change to the Python-2.2.3 directory
and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;, &quot;make install&quot; commands to compile
and install Python.

What's New?
-----------

This being a bug-fix release, there have been no exciting new features
implemented since 2.2.2 -- just heaps of fixes.

For a list of intentional incompatibilities and other details of
this release, see the `bugs page <bugs>`_ and the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in
the source distribution

For the full list of changes, you can poke around CVS. 

Other sources of information on 2.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `Unifying types and classes in Python 2.2 <descrintro>`_ by Guido van Rossum -- a tutorial on the material covered by PEPs 252 and 253.

- `What's New in Python 2.2 </doc/2.2.3/whatsnew/>`_ by Andrew Kuchling describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.1 <../2.1/>`_.

- Guido gave a talk on what's new in 2.2 at the ZPUG-DC meeting on September 26, 2001; here are his `powerpoint slides <http://zpug.org/dc/>`_.

- `Charming Python: Iterators and simple generators <http://www-106.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-pycon.html?n-l-9271>`_ by David Mertz on IBM developerWorks.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has been updated too: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.2.3>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.2.3/>`_

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums and sizes
---------------------------------------------

    ``d76e774a4169794ae0d7a8598478e69e`` `Python-2.2.3.exe 
    </ftp/python/2.2.3/Python-2.2.3.exe>`_ (7334106 bytes) 

    ``169f89f318e252dac0c54dd1b165d229`` `Python-2.2.3.tgz 
    </ftp/python/2.2.3/Python-2.2.3.tgz>`_ (6709556 bytes)