Python 2.2.1
------------

    *Note:   See `Python 2.2.3 <../2.2.3/>`_ for a patch
    release which supersedes 2.2.1.*

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
      `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
      "Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
      builds (UCS-4)".  This fix is included in
      `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_
      and `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_. If you need to remain with Python 2.2,
      there's a patch available from the security advisory page.

We are pleased to announce the release of **Python 2.2.1**, on
April 10, 2002.  This is a bug-fix release for Python 2.2 and
supersedes the `2.2 <../2.2/>`_ release.

Download the release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.2.1.exe </ftp/python/2.2.1/Python-2.2.1.exe>`_, run
it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete the
installation.
Windows users may also be interested in Mark
Hammond's `win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

**Update (2002/04/23):** Windows users should download a new `UNWISE.EXE </ftp/python/2.2.1/UNWISE.EXE>`_ from Wise that
fixes a bug which could cause the uninstaller to disappear in some
circumstances.  Just drop it over the old uninstaller, which will be
at ``C:\Python22\UNWISE.EXE`` unless you chose a different
directory at install time.

**Macintosh** users can find binaries and source on the `Mac page <mac>`_ or Jack Jansen's `MacPython page <http://www.cwi.nl/~jack/macpython.html>`_.
(MacOS X users who have a C compiler can also build from the source
tarball below.)

**Red Hat Linux 7.3, 7.2 and 6.2** users can download
`RPMs <rpms>`_, or build from source.  An SRPM is also
available for other RPM-based systems, or the source tar-file can be used
(see the "rpm" man page for the "-ta" options).

**All others** should download `Python-2.2.1.tgz </ftp/python/2.2.1/Python-2.2.1.tgz>`_, the
source tarball, and do the usual "gunzip; tar; configure; make" dance.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

This being a bug-fix release, there have been no exciting new features
implemented since 2.2 -- just heaps of fixes.

For a partial list of these fixes, please see the `release notes <NEWS>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in
the source distribution.

For the full list of changes, you can poke around CVS.

Other sources of information on 2.2
###################################

- Unifying types and classes in Python 2.2 by Guido van Rossum -- a tutorial on the material covered by PEPs 252 and 253.
- What's New in Python 2.2 by Andrew Kuchling describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.1 <../2.1/>`_.
- Guido gave a talk on what's new in 2.2 at the ZPUG-DC meeting on September 26, 2001; here are his `powerpoint slides <http://zpug.org/dc/>`_.
- `Charming Python: Iterators and simple generators <http://www-106.ibm.com/developerworks/library/l-pycon.html?n-l-9271>`_ by David Mertz on IBM developerWorks.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation has been updated too:

- `Browse </doc/2.2.1/>`_ HTML on-line
- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.2.1/>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums and sizes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

    1d1d8c1922177fd9e603552f0507d33b `Python-2.2.1.exe </ftp/python/2.2.1/Python-2.2.1.exe>`_ (7142643 bytes)
        e7012d611602b62e36073c2fd02396a3 `Python-2.2.1.tgz </ftp/python/2.2.1/Python-2.2.1.tgz>`_ (6535104 bytes)
        9ae1d572cbd2bfd4e0c4b92ac11387c6 `UNWISE.EXE </ftp/python/2.2.1/UNWISE.EXE>`_ (162304 bytes)