Python 2.3.2
------------

    *Note: See `Python 2.3.5 <../2.3.5/>`_ for a
    patch release release which supersedes earlier releases of 2.3.*

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
      `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
      "Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
      builds (UCS-4)".  This fix is included in
      `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_
      and `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_. If you need to remain with Python 2.3,
      there's a patch available from the security advisory page.

    **Important:
    2.3.5 includes a security
    fix for SimpleXMLRPCServer.py.**

We're happy to announce the release of **Python 2.3.2 (final)**
on October 3rd, 2003.
This is a bug-fix release for Python 2.3.1 that fixes a couple of build
errors and a couple of packaging errors in the previous release. It
supersedes the original `Python 2.3.1 <../2.3.1/>`_ release.

No new features have been added in Python 2.3.2. Instead, this
release is to fix a couple of build errors and packaging errors. In
particular, a workaround for a bug in autoconf on HP/UX, and an error
in the configure script that meant os.fsync() was never available.

None of the bugs in 2.3.1 affect the Windows platforms.  If you
have previously downloaded Python 2.3.1 for Windows, there's no need
to upgrade to 2.3.2.  (But if you're still at 2.3 or before,
downloading 2.3.2 is a good idea.)

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known
issues and the bug reporting procedure.

Download the release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.3.2-1.exe </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2-1.exe>`_, run
it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete the
installation.  Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

Please note that the original Windows installer had a problem with
some dll files shipped with the installer. This was reported to cause
problems on some Windows 98 and Windows NT machines. The replacement 
installer (with a -1 extension) should address this problem. We apologise
to anyone who was affected by this.

RPMs suitable for Redhat and source RPMs for other RPM-using
operating systems are available from `the RPMs page <rpms>`_.

**All others** should download either 
`Python-2.3.2.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2.tgz>`_ or
`Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2>`_, 
the source archive.  The tar.bz2 is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the appropriate 
tools to deal with it. Unpack it with 
"tar -zxvf Python-2.3.2.tgz" (or 
"bzcat Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -").  
Change to the Python-2.3.2 directory
and run the "./configure", "make", "make install" commands to compile 
and install Python.

If you're having trouble building on your system, check the top-level
README file for platform-specific tips, or check the 
`Build Bugs <bugs#build>`_ section on the Bugs webpage.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

- See the `highlights <../2.3/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.3 release. As noted, the 2.3.2 release is a bugfix release of 2.3.1, itself a bugfix release of 2.3.
- The Windows installer now includes the documentation in searchable  htmlhelp format, rather than individual HTML files. You can still download the `individual HTML files </ftp/python/doc/2.3.2/>`_.
- Andrew Kuchling's What's New in Python 2.3 describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.2 <../2.2.3/>`_ in more detail.
- A detailed list of the changes is in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.
- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `CVS <http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=5470>`_.
- The PSF's press release announcing 2.3.2.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation has been updated too:

- `Browse HTML documentation on-line </doc/2.3.2/>`_
- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.3.2/>`_.

The interim documentation for
new-style classes, last seen for Python 2.2.3, is still relevant
for Python 2.3.2.  Raymond Hettinger has also written a tutorial on
descriptors, introduced in Python 2.2.  
In addition, The Python 2.3 Method
Resolution Order is a nice paper by Michele Simionato that
explains the C3 MRO algorithm (new in Python 2.3) clearly.  (Also
available as `reStructured Text </download/releases/2.3/mro/mro.txt>`_.  Copied with
permission.)

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures, and sizes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

    f54d7a529d444994b4b33429bbb45479 `Python-2.3.2.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2.tgz>`_ (8459427 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.2.tgz.asc>`_)
    9271171d55690e5cacd692e563924305 `Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2>`_ (7161770 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.2.tar.bz2.asc>`_)
    87aed0e4a79c350065b770f9a4ddfd75 `Python-2.3.2-1.exe </ftp/python/2.3.2/Python-2.3.2-1.exe>`_ (9481060 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.2-1.exe.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using the release manager's
(Anthony Baxter)
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_ 
which has a key id of 6A45C816.