Python 2.3
----------

    *Note: See `Python 2.3.5 <../2.3.5/>`_ for a
    patch release release which supersedes earlier releases of 2.3.*

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
      `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_ 
      "Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
      builds (UCS-4)".  This fix is included in 
      `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_
      and `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_. If you need to remain with Python 2.3,
      there's a patch available from the security advisory page.

    **Important:
    2.3.5 includes a security
    fix for SimpleXMLRPCServer.py.**

We are pleased to announce the release of **Python 2.3** on
July 29, 2003.  This is a final, stable release, and we recommend
Python users upgrade to this version.

Nineteen months in the making, Python 2.3 represents a commitment to
stability and improved performance, with a minimum of new language
features.  Countless bugs and memory leaks have been fixed, many new
and updated modules have been added, and the new type/class system
introduced in Python 2.2 has been significantly improved.  Python 2.3
can be up to 30% faster than Python 2.2.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known
issues and the bug reporting procedure.

Download the release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.3.exe </ftp/python/2.3/Python-2.3.exe>`_, run
it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete the
installation.  Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

**All others** should download `Python-2.3.tgz </ftp/python/2.3/Python-2.3.tgz>`_, the
source archive.  Unpack it with 
"tar -zxvf Python-2.3.tgz".  Change to the Python-2.3 directory
and run the "./configure", "make", "make install" commands to compile 
and install Python.

**Macintosh** users can find binaries and source on 
 Jack Jansen's 
`MacPython page <http://homepages.cwi.nl/~jack/macpython/>`_.
Mac OS X users who have a C compiler (which comes with the 
OS X
Developer Tools) can also build from the source tarball below.

`IDLEFORK <http://idlefork.sf.net>`_ users should take
note: Idlefork has been re-merged back into the main Python
distribution and takes the place of the old IDLE release.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

- See the `highlights <highlights>`_ of this release.
- Andrew Kuchling's What's New in Python 2.3 describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.2 <../2.2.3/>`_ in more detail.
- A detailed list of the changes is in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.
- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `CVS <http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=5470>`_.
- The PSF's press release announcing 2.3.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation has been updated too:

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.3/>`_
- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.3/>`_.

The interim documentation for
new-style classes, last seen for Python 2.2.3, is still relevant
for Python 2.3.  In addition, The Python 2.3 Method
Resolution Order is a nice paper by Michele Simionato that
explains the C3 MRO algorithm (new in Python 2.3) clearly.  (Also
available as `reStructured Text <mro/mro.txt>`_.  Copied with
permission.)

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures, and sizes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

    595620a4769073a812e353597585c4e8 `Python-2.3.tgz </ftp/python/2.3/Python-2.3.tgz>`_ (8436880 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.tgz.asc>`_)
    5763d167f4ab3467455e4728ac5a03ac `Python-2.3.exe </ftp/python/2.3/Python-2.3.exe>`_ (9380742 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.exe.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using the release manager's
(Barry Warsaw)
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_ which
has a key id of ED9D77D5.