Python 2.3.4
------------

    *Note: See `Python 2.3.5 <../2.3.5/>`_ for a
    patch release which supersedes earlier releases of 2.3.*

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
      `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
      "Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
      builds (UCS-4)".  This fix is included in
      `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_
      and `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_. If you need to remain with Python 2.3,
      there's a patch available from the security advisory page.

    **Important:
    2.3.5 includes a security
    fix for SimpleXMLRPCServer.py.**

We're happy to announce the release of 
**Python 2.3.4 (final)** on May 27th, 2004.
This is a bug-fix release for Python 2.3 that fixes a number of bugs,
including a couple of weakref bugs and a bug in pickle version 2.
There are also a number of fixes to the standard library, and some
build fixes - see the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for details.

Python 2.3.4 supersedes the previous `Python 2.3.3 <../2.3.3/>`_ 
release.

No new features have been added in Python 2.3.4. The 2.3 series is
now in bugfix-only mode.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known
issues and the bug reporting procedure.

Download the release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.3.4.exe </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.exe>`_, run
it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete the
installation.  Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

RPMs suitable for Red Hat/Fedora and source RPMs for other RPM-using
operating systems are available from `the RPMs page <rpms>`_.

**All others** should download either 
`Python-2.3.4.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.tgz>`_ or
`Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.  The tar.bz2 is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the appropriate 
tools to deal with it. Unpack it with 
"tar -zxvf Python-2.3.4.tgz" (or 
"bzcat Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -").  
Change to the Python-2.3.4 directory
and run the "./configure", "make", "make install" commands to compile 
and install Python. The source archive is also suitable for Windows users
who feel the need to build their own version.

**Warning for Solaris and HP-UX users**: Some versions of the
Solaris and HP/UX versions of *tar(1)* report checksum
errors and are unable to unpack the Python source tree.
This is caused by some pathnames being too
long for the vendor's version. Use
`GNU tar <http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/tar.html>`_ instead.

If you're having trouble building on your system, check the top-level
README file for platform-specific tips, or check the 
`Build Bugs <bugs#build>`_ section on the Bugs webpage.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

- A detailed list of the changes since 2.3.3 is in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the file ``Misc/NEWS`` in the source distribution.
- See the `highlights <../2.3/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.3 release. As noted, the 2.3.4 release is a bugfix release of 2.3.3, itself a bugfix release of 2.3.
- The Windows installer now includes the documentation in searchable  htmlhelp format, rather than individual HTML files. You can still download the `individual HTML files </ftp/python/doc/2.3.4/>`_.
- Andrew Kuchling's What's New in Python 2.3 describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.2 <../2.2.3/>`_ in more detail.
- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `CVS <http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=5470>`_.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation has been updated too:

- `Browse HTML documentation on-line </doc/2.3.4/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.3.4/>`_.

The interim documentation for
new-style classes, last seen for Python 2.2.3, is still relevant
for Python 2.3.4.  Raymond Hettinger has also written a tutorial on
descriptors, introduced in Python 2.2.  
In addition, The Python 2.3 Method
Resolution Order is a nice paper by Michele Simionato that
explains the C3 MRO algorithm (new in Python 2.3) clearly.  (Also
available as `reStructured Text <../2.3/mro/mro.txt>`_.  Copied with
permission.)

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures, and sizes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

    b6cf0b19226861a38689d2fabd0931b3 `Python-2.3.4.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.tgz>`_ (8502738 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.4.tgz.asc>`_)
    a2c089faa2726c142419c03472fc4063 `Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2>`_ (7189129 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.4.tar.bz2.asc>`_)
    65275cc93b905c25d130d71c116892f2 `Python-2.3.4.exe </ftp/python/2.3.4/Python-2.3.4.exe>`_ (9889611 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.4.exe.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using the release manager's
(Anthony Baxter)
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_ 
which has a key id of 6A45C816.