Python 2.3.7
------------

    We are pleased to announce
    **Python 2.3.7 (final)**, a
    bugfix release of Python 2.3, on March 11, 2008.

    **Important:**
    2.3.7 is a source-only release. If you need a binary release
    of 2.3, use `2.3.5 <../2.3.5>`_. If you need the fixes that are
    included in this release, use `2.5.2 <../2.5.2>`_ or later.

Python 2.3 is now well and truly in bugfix-only mode; no new features
are being added, and only security critical bugs have been fixed.
This release addresses a number of cases interpreter might have
crashed in certain boundary conditions.

See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for more details. 

`Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_ and `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ are newer releases of
Python. This release of the older 2.3 code is to provide bug fixes for people
who are still using Python 2.3.

For more information on the new features of `Python 2.3 <../2.3/>`_ see the
`2.3 highlights <../2.3/highlights>`_ or consult Andrew Kuchling's
`What's New In Python <http://www.python.org/doc/2.3.5/whatsnew/whatsnew23.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Since the release candidate, we received various reports that the
this release may fail to build on current operating systems, in
particular on OS X. We have made no attempt to fix these problems,
as the release is targeted for systems that were current at the time
Python 2.3 was originally released. For more recent systems, you might
have to come up with work-arounds. For OS X in particular, try
invoking:

.. code-block::

    ./configure MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.5

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_

Download the release
--------------------

As noted, python.org is not providing binary installers for 2.3.7. Windows
and Mac OS X users who cannot compile their own versions should continue to
use the `2.3.5 <../2.3.5/>`_ installers. These installers are not vulnerable
to PSF-2006-001.

gzip-compressed source code: `Python-2.3.7.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.3.7/Python-2.3.7.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.7/Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.3.7.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.3.7 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.3/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.3 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.3 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.3.5/whatsnew/whatsnew23.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.2 <../2.2/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.3.7 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution. This is a very short list - only security fixes have been included.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/branches/release23-maint/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation for 2.3.5 is still current for this release. 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.3.5/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.3.5/>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``0b4861edfaa6d8451458d5d7ed735e4a`` `Python-2.3.7.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.7/Python-2.3.7.tgz>`_
    (8694077 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.7.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``fa73476c5214c57d0751fae527f991e1`` `Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.7/Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2>`_
    (7352771 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.7.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Martin v. L?wis's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.