Python 2.3.5
------------

We're happy to announce the release of 
**Python 2.3.5 (final)** on 
Feb 8th, 2005.
This is a bug-fix release for Python 2.3. There have been around 50
bugs fixed since 2.3.4 - in the Python interpreter, the standard library
and also in the build process - see the release 
notes for details.

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
      `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
      "Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
      builds (UCS-4)".  This fix is included in
      `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_
      and `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_. If you need to remain with Python 2.3,
      there's a patch available from the security advisory page.

Python 2.3.5 supersedes the previous `Python 2.3.4 </download/releases/2.3.4/>`_ 
release.

No new features have been added in Python 2.3.5 -- the 2.3 series is
in bugfix-only mode.

**2.3.5 contains an important security fix for 
SimpleXMLRPCServer - see the 
advisory (PSF-2005-001) for more.**

Python 2.3.5 is the last planned release in the Python 2.3 series, and 
is being released for those people who are stuck on Python 2.3 for some 
reason.  `Python 2.4 </download/releases/2.4/>`_
is a newer release, and should be preferred where possible. 
From here, bugfix releases will be made from the Python 2.4 branch - 
2.4.1 will be the next Python release.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known
issues and the bug reporting procedure.

Download the release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Windows** users should download the Windows installer, `Python-2.3.5.exe </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.exe>`_, run
it and follow the friendly instructions on the screen to complete the
installation.  Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/>`_, a collection of Windows-specific extensions including
COM support and Pythonwin, an IDE built using Windows components.

RPMs suitable for Red Hat/Fedora and source RPMs for other RPM-using
operating systems are available from `the RPMs page <rpms>`_.

**All others** should download either 
`Python-2.3.5.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.tgz>`_ or
`Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.  The tar.bz2 is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the appropriate 
tools to deal with it. Unpack it with 
"tar -zxvf Python-2.3.5.tgz" (or 
"bzcat Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -").  
Change to the Python-2.3.5 directory
and run the "./configure", "make", "make install" commands to compile 
and install Python. The source archive is also suitable for Windows users
who feel the need to build their own version.

**Warning for Solaris and HP-UX users**: Some versions of the
Solaris and HP/UX versions of *tar(1)* report checksum
errors and are unable to unpack the Python source tree.
This is caused by some pathnames being too
long for the vendor's version. Use
`GNU tar <http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/tar.html>`_ instead.

If you're having trouble building on your system, check the top-level
README file for platform-specific tips, or check the 
`Build Bugs <bugs#build>`_ section on the Bugs webpage.

What's New?
~~~~~~~~~~~

- A detailed list of the changes since 2.3.4 is in the `release notes <notes>`_, also available as the file ``Misc/NEWS`` in the source distribution.
- See the `highlights </download/releases/2.3/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.3 release. As noted, the 2.3.5 release is a bugfix release of 2.3.4, itself a bugfix release of 2.3.
- The Windows installer now includes the documentation in searchable  htmlhelp format, rather than individual HTML files. You can still download the `individual HTML files </ftp/python/doc/2.3.5/>`_.
- Andrew Kuchling's What's New in Python 2.3 describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.2 </download/releases/2.2.3/>`_ in more detail.
- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `CVS <http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=5470>`_.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The documentation has been updated too:

- `Browse HTML documentation on-line </doc/2.3.5/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.3.5/>`_.

The interim documentation for
new-style classes, last seen for Python 2.2.3, is still relevant
for Python 2.3.5.  Raymond Hettinger has also written a tutorial on
descriptors, introduced in Python 2.2.  
In addition, The Python 2.3 Method
Resolution Order is a nice paper by Michele Simionato that
explains the C3 MRO algorithm (new in Python 2.3) clearly.  (Also
available as `reStructured Text </download/releases/2.3/mro/mro.txt>`_.  Copied with
permission.)

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures, and sizes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block::

    7a1ecc1196c5c0e9d4eef90ba684c4e9 `Python-2.3.5.tgz </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.tgz>`_ (8535749 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.5.tgz.asc>`_)
    c12b57c6e0cf8bc676fd9444d71c9e18 `Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2>`_ (7230000 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.5.tar.bz2.asc>`_)
    ba6f9eb9da40ad23bc631a1f31149a01 `Python-2.3.5.exe </ftp/python/2.3.5/Python-2.3.5.exe>`_ (9881382 bytes, `signature <Python-2.3.5.exe.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using the release manager's
(Anthony Baxter)
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_ 
which has a key id of 6A45C816.