Python 2.4.1
------------

    **Python 2.4.1 has been replaced by a newer bugfix
    release.**  Please see the `releases page <../>`_ to select a more
    recent release.

We are pleased to announce the release of **Python 2.4.1 (final)**
on March 30, 2005.

    **Important:** This release is vulnerable to the problem described in
    `security advisory PSF-2006-001 </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
    &quot;Buffer overrun in repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode
    builds (UCS-4)&quot;.  This fix is included in `Python 2.4.4 <../2.4.4/>`_

    **Note: there's a** `security fix </news/security/PSF-2005-001/>`_
    **for SimpleXMLRPCServer.py - this fix is included in 2.4.1**

Python 2.4.1 is a bugfix release of Python 2.4 - Python 2.4 is now
in bugfix-only mode, no new features are being added. Several dozen
bugs were squashed since Python 2.4, including the SimpleXMLRPCServer
security fix. See the `detailed release notes <notes/>`_ for more,

For more information on the new features of
`Python 2.4 </2.4/index.html>`_ see the
`2.4 highlights </2.4/highlights.html>`_ or consult Andrew
Kuchling's `What's New In Python </doc/2.4/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known
issues and the bug reporting procedure.

Download the release
--------------------

Starting with the Python 2.4 releases the **Windows** Python
installer is being distributed as a Microsoft Installer (.msi) file.
To use this, the Windows system must support Microsoft Installer
2.0. Just save the installer file
`python-2.4.1.msi </ftp/python/2.4.1/python-2.4.1.msi>`_
to your local machine, then double-click python-2.4.1.msi to find
out if your machine supports MSI. If it doesn't, you'll need to
install Microsoft Installer first. Many other packages (such as
Word and Office) also include MSI, so you
may already have it on your system. If not, you can download it freely
from Microsoft for `Windows  95, 98 and Me <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=cebbacd8-c094-4255-b702-de3bb768148f&displaylang=en>`_ and for `Windows  NT 4.0 and 2000 <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=4b6140f9-2d36-4977-8fa1-6f8a0f5dca8f&DisplayLang=en>`_. Windows XP and later already have MSI; many
older machines will already have MSI installed.

The new format installer allows for `automated installation </download/releases/2.4/msi/#automated>`_ and `many other  shiny new features </2.4/msi.html>`_. There is also a separate installer
`python-2.4.1.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.4.1/python-2.4.1.ia64.msi>`_
for Win64-Itanium users.

Windows users may also be
interested in Mark Hammond's `win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/>`_ package, available from `Sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018>`_. win32all adds a number of Windows-specific
extensions to Python, including COM support and the Pythonwin IDE.

Bob Ippolito has created an installer for Mac OS X 10.3 and
later - you can fetch this from `his site <http://undefined.org/python/#python>`_, or directly from `here </ftp/python/2.4.1/MacPython-OSX-2.4.1-1.dmg>`_.

**All others** should download either
`Python-2.4.1.tgz </ftp/python/2.4.1/Python-2.4.1.tgz>`_ or
`Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.4.1/Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.  The tar.bz2 is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://sources.redhat.com/bzip2/>`_ to deal with it. Unpack it with
``tar -zxvf Python-2.4.1.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.4.1 directory
and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;, &quot;make install&quot; commands to compile
and install Python. The source archive is also suitable for Windows users
who feel the need to build their own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights </2.4/highlights.html>`_ of the Python 2.4 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.4 </doc/2.4/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.3 </2.3/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.4.1 is in the `release notes <NEWS.html>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `CVS <http://sourceforge.net/cvs/?group_id=5470>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.4.1/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.4.1/>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``7bb2416a4f421c3452d306694d3efbba`` `Python-2.4.1.tgz 
    </ftp/python/2.4.1/Python-2.4.1.tgz>`_ (9219882 bytes, `sig 
    <Python-2.4.1.tgz.asc>`_) 

    ``de3e9a8836fab6df7c7ce545331afeb3`` `Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2 
    </ftp/python/2.4.1/Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2>`_ (7847025 bytes, `sig 
    <Python-2.4.1.tar.bz2.asc>`_) 

    ``5de61a8f3a20a0cc8d0ec82e9901aa6b`` `python-2.4.1.msi 
    </ftp/python/2.4.1/python-2.4.1.msi>`_ (10970624 bytes, `sig 
    <python-2.4.1.msi.asc>`_) 

    ``e639f4554a5dadf4da7a04ae64c8f85a`` `python-2.4.1.ia64.msi 
    </ftp/python/2.4.1/python-2.4.1.ia64.msi>`_ (8930816 bytes, `sig 
    <python-2.4.1.ia64.msi.asc>`_) 

    ``1db4d575a2c5d6ab24be10c38154551a`` `MacPython-OSX-2.4.1-1.dmg 
    </ftp/python/2.4.1/MacPython-OSX-2.4.1-1.dmg>`_ (7918391 bytes, `sig 
    <MacPython-OSX-2.4.1-1.dmg.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Anthony Baxter's
`public key </download/#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 6A45C816.