Python 2.4.6
------------

    We are pleased to announce
    **Python 2.4.6 (final)**, a
    bugfix release of Python 2.4, on Dec 19, 2008.

    **Important:**
    2.4.6 is a source-only release. If you need a binary release
    of 2.4, use `2.4.4 <../2.4.4>`_. If you need the fixes that are
    included in this release, use `2.6.1 <../2.6.1>`_ or later.

This release includes just a small number of fixes, primarily preventing
crashes of the interpreter in certain boundary cases.  This is the last
planned release in the Python 2.4 series.

We have decided not to include binaries for Windows or OS X in this
release, nor to update any online documentation, as the overhead
for doing so would have greatly outweighed the amount of changes that
we release. If you need the security fixes included in this release,
please build your own binaries from the sources, or (better) upgrade
to a more recent Python release for which we still do provide binaries
and documentation updates.

See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for more details. 

For the previous release (2.4.5), we received various reports that the
this release may fail to build on current operating systems, in
particular on OS X. We have made no attempt to fix these problems,
as the release is targeted for systems that were current at the time
Python 2.4 was originally released. For more recent systems, you might
have to come up with work-arounds. For OS X in particular, try
invoking:

.. code-block::

    ./configure MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.5

For more information on the new features of `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ see the
`2.4 highlights <../2.4/highlights>`_ or consult Andrew Kuchling's
`What's New In Python <http://www.python.org/doc/2.4.4/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_

Download the release
--------------------

gzip-compressed source code: `python-2.4.6.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.4.6/Python-2.4.6.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `python-2.4.6.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.4.6/Python-2.4.6.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.4.6.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.4.6.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.4.6 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.4/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.4 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.4 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.4.3/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.3 <../2.3/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.4.6 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/trunk/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.4.4/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.4.4/>`_.

- Documentation is available in Windows Help (.chm) format - `python24.chm </ftp/python/2.4.4/python24.chm>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``7564b2b142b1b8345cd5358b7aaaa482`` `Python-2.4.6.tgz </ftp/python/2.4.6/Python-2.4.6.tgz>`_
    (9550168 bytes, `signature <Python-2.4.6.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``76083277f6c7e4d78992f36d7ad9018d`` `Python-2.4.6.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.4.6/Python-2.4.6.tar.bz2>`_
    (8154677 bytes, `signature <Python-2.4.6.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Martin v. L?wis's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.