Python 2.5.4
------------

    We are pleased to announce the release of
    **Python 2.5.4 (final)**, a
    bugfix release of Python 2.5, on December 23rd, 2008.

    **Python 2.5.4 has been replaced by a newer bugfix release of
    Python**. Please download `Python 2.5.6 <../2.5.6/>`_ instead,
    unless you need to use the Windows and OS X binaries provided here.

This is the last bugfix release of Python 2.5. Future releases of
Python 2.5 will only contain security patches; no new features are
being added, and no &quot;regular&quot; bugs will be fixed anymore. According to
the release notes, about 80 bugs and patches have been addressed since
Python 2.5.2, many of them improving the stability of the interpreter,
and improving its portability. Python 2.5.3 unfortunately contained an
incorrect patch that could cause interpreter crashes; the only change
in Python 2.5.4 relative to 2.5.4 is the reversal of this patch.
Future releases will only address security isses, and no binaries or
documentation updates will be provided in future releases of Python
2.5.

If you want the latest production version of Python, use
`Python 2.7.2 <../2.7.2/>`_ or later.

See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for more details. 

For more information on the new features of `Python 2.5 <../2.5/>`_ see the
`2.5 highlights <../2.5/highlights>`_ or consult Andrew Kuchling's
`What's New In Python </doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_.

Download the release
--------------------

Windows
~~~~~~~

For x86 processors: `python-2.5.4.msi </ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.msi>`_ 

For Win64-Itanium users: `python-2.5.4.ia64.msi 
</ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.ia64.msi>`_ 

For Win64-AMD64 users: `python-2.5.4.amd64.msi 
</ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.amd64.msi>`_ 

This installer allows for `automated installation 
</download/releases/2.5/msi#automated>`_ and `many other new features 
</download/releases/2.5/msi>`_. 

To use these installers, the Windows system must support Microsoft
Installer 2.0. Just save the installer file to your local machine and
then run it to find out if your machine supports
MSI.

Windows XP and later already have MSI; many older machines will
already have MSI installed.

If your machine lacks Microsoft Installer, you'll have to download it
freely from Microsoft for `Windows 95, 98 and Me <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=cebbacd8-c094-4255-b702-de3bb768148f&displaylang=en>`_
and for `Windows NT 4.0 and 2000 <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=4b6140f9-2d36-4977-8fa1-6f8a0f5dca8f&DisplayLang=en>`_.

Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/>`_ package,
available from
`Sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018>`_.
win32all adds a number of Windows-specific extensions to Python, including COM support and the Pythonwin IDE.

MacOS X
~~~~~~~

For MacOS X 10.3 and later: `python-2.5.4-macosx.dmg 
</ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4-macosx.dmg>`_. This is a Universal installer. 

The Universal OS X image contains an installer for python
2.5.4 that works on Mac OS X 10.3.9 and later, on both PPC and Intel
Macs.   The compiled libraries include both bsddb and readline.

Other platforms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

gzip-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.4.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.5.4/Python-2.5.4.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.4/Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.5.4.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.5.4 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.5/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.5 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.5 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.5.4 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/trunk/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.5.4/>`_

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``ad47b23778f64edadaaa8b5534986eed`` `Python-2.5.4.tgz </ftp/python/2.5.4/Python-2.5.4.tgz>`_
    (11604497 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.4.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``394a5f56a5ce811fb0f023197ec0833e`` `Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.4/Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2>`_
    (9821313 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.4.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

    ``b4bbaf5a24f7f0f5389706d768b4d210`` `python-2.5.4.msi </ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.msi>`_
    (11323392 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.4.msi.asc>`_)

    ``b1e1e2a43324b0b6ddaff101ecbd8913`` `python-2.5.4.amd64.msi </ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.amd64.msi>`_
    (11340800 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.4.amd64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``1acf900a3daf3f99d1a5511c2df98853`` `python-2.5.4.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4.ia64.msi>`_
    (13567488 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.4.ia64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``d8bd62fd175f5f9e9f4573e31096747e`` `python-2.5.4-macosx.dmg </ftp/python/2.5.4/python-2.5.4-macosx.dmg>`_
    (19277129 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.4-macosx.dmg.asc>`_)

    ``46d82531cfb9384d19d1bb4c9bbcfbab`` `Python25.chm </ftp/python/2.5.4/Python25.chm>`_
    (4182312 bytes, `signature <Python25.chm.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Martin v. L?wis's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.