Python 2.5.2
------------

    **Python 2.5.2 has been replaced by a newer bugfix
    release of Python**. Please download `Python 2.5.6 <../2.5.6/>`_ instead.

Python 2.5.2 was released on February 21st, 2008. 

This is the second bugfix release of Python 2.5. Python 2.5 is now in
bugfix-only mode; no new features are being added. According to the
release notes, over 100 bugs and patches have been addressed since
Python 2.5.1, many of them improving the stability of the interpreter,
and improving its portability.

If you want the latest production version of Python, use
`Python 2.7 <../2.7/>`_ or later.

See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for more details. 

Since the release candidate, we have backed out a few changes that
did not work correctly on 64-bit systems. Again, see the release
notes.

For more information on the new features of `Python 2.5.2 <../2.5.2/>`_ see the
`2.5 highlights <../2.5/highlights>`_ or consult Andrew Kuchling's
`What's New In Python </doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_.

Download the release
--------------------

Windows
~~~~~~~

For x86 processors: `python-2.5.2.msi </ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.msi>`_ 

For Win64-Itanium users: `python-2.5.2.ia64.msi 
</ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.ia64.msi>`_ 

For Win64-AMD64 users: `python-2.5.2.amd64.msi 
</ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.amd64.msi>`_ 

This installer allows for `automated installation 
</download/releases/2.5/msi#automated>`_ and `many other new features 
</download/releases/2.5/msi>`_. 

To use these installers, the Windows system must support Microsoft
Installer 2.0. Just save the installer file to your local machine and
then run it to find out if your machine supports
MSI.

Windows XP and later already have MSI; many older machines will
already have MSI installed.

If your machine lacks Microsoft Installer, you'll have to download it
freely from Microsoft for `Windows 95, 98 and Me <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=cebbacd8-c094-4255-b702-de3bb768148f&displaylang=en>`_
and for `Windows NT 4.0 and 2000 <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=4b6140f9-2d36-4977-8fa1-6f8a0f5dca8f&DisplayLang=en>`_.

Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/>`_ package,
available from
`Sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018>`_.
win32all adds a number of Windows-specific extensions to Python, including COM support and the Pythonwin IDE.

MacOS X
~~~~~~~

For MacOS X 10.3 and later: `python-2.5.2-macosx.dmg 
</ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2-macosx.dmg>`_. This is a Universal installer. 

The Universal OS X image contains an installer for python
2.5.2 that works on Mac OS X 10.3.9 and later, on both PPC and Intel
Macs.   The compiled libraries include both bsddb and readline.

Other platforms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

gzip-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.2.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.5.2/Python-2.5.2.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.2/Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.5.2.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.5.2 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.5/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.5 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.5 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.5.2 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/trunk/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.5.2/>`_.

- Documentation is available in Windows Help (.chm) format - `Python25.chm </ftp/python/2.5.2/Python25.chm>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``3f7ca8aa86c6bd275426d63b46e07992`` `Python-2.5.2.tgz </ftp/python/2.5.2/Python-2.5.2.tgz>`_
    (11584231 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.2.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``afb5451049eda91fbde10bd5a4b7fadc`` `Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.2/Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2>`_
    (9806423 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.2.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

    ``d71e45968fdc4e206bb69fbf4cb82b2d`` `python-2.5.2.msi </ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.msi>`_
    (11294720 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.2.msi.asc>`_)

    ``d44a5741d54eefd690298e118b0f815a`` `python-2.5.2.amd64.msi </ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.amd64.msi>`_
    (11301888 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.2.amd64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``86a5c0b141c52d1d7dc31ec5a1f3ab7c`` `python-2.5.2.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2.ia64.msi>`_
    (13523456 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.2.ia64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``f72ba5ba35bf631eec94870e8ebeba61`` `python-2.5.2-macosx.dmg </ftp/python/2.5.2/python-2.5.2-macosx.dmg>`_
    (19200390 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.2-macosx.dmg.asc>`_)

    ``4c2f7e124287525a93849b0b53893bf0`` `Python25.chm </ftp/python/2.5.2/Python25.chm>`_
    (4178494 bytes, `signature <Python25.chm.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Martin v. L?wis's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.