Python 2.7
----------

Note: A bugfix release, 2.7.2, is currently `available 
</download/releases/2.7.2/>`_.  Its use is recommended. 

Python 2.7 was released on July 3rd, 2010. 

Python 2.7 is scheduled to be the last major version in the 2.x series before it
moves into an extended maintenance period.  This release contains many of the
features that were first released in Python 3.1.  Improvements in this release
include:

- An ordered dictionary type

- New unittest features including test skipping, new assert methods, and test discovery

- A much faster io module

- Automatic numbering of fields in the str.format() method

- Float repr improvements backported from 3.x

- Tile support for Tkinter

- A backport of the memoryview object from 3.x

- Set literals

- Set and dictionary comprehensions

- Dictionary views

- New syntax for nested with statements

- The sysconfig module

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's new in 2.7? <http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/2.7.html>`_

- `Change log for this release <http://svn.python.org/projects/python/tags/r27/Misc/NEWS>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/2.7/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

- `Help fund Python and its community </psf/donations/>`_.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please `report any bugs 
<http://bugs.python.org>`_ you encounter. 

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Gzipped source tar ball (2.7) </ftp/python/2.7/Python-2.7.tgz>`_ `(sig) <Python-2.7.tgz.asc>`_

- `Bzipped source tar ball (2.7) </ftp/python/2.7/Python-2.7.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) <Python-2.7.tar.bz2.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (2.7) </ftp/python/2.7/python-2.7.msi>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (2.7) </ftp/python/2.7/python-2.7.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id2>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.amd64.msi.asc>`_

- `Mac Installer disk image (2.7) for OS X 10.5 and later </ftp/python/2.7/python-2.7-macosx10.5.dmg>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7-macosx10.5.dmg.asc>`_.  It contains code for PPC, i386, and x86-64.

- `32-bit Mac Installer disk image (2.7) for OS X 10.3 and later </ftp/python/2.7/python-2.7-macosx10.3.dmg>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7-macosx10.3.dmg.asc>`_.

- `Windows help file </ftp/python/2.7/python27.chm>`_ `(sig) <python27.chm.asc>`_

The source tarballs are signed with Benjamin Peterson's key (fingerprint: 12EF
3DC3 8047 DA38 2D18 A5B9 99CD EA9D A413 5B38). The Windows installer was signed
by Martin von L?wis' public key, which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.  The Mac
installers were signed with Ronald Oussoren's key, which has a key id of
E6DF025C.  The public keys are located on the `download page </download#pubkeys>`_.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    35f56b092ecf39a6bd59d64f142aae0f  14026384  Python-2.7.tgz
    0e8c9ec32abf5b732bea7d91b38c3339  11735195  Python-2.7.tar.bz2
    bd0dc174cbefbc37064ea81db1f669b7  16247296  python-2.7.amd64.msi
    1719febcbc0e0af3a6d3a47ba5fbf851  15913472  python-2.7.msi
    759077d3763134b3272f0e04ea082bd9  21420655  python-2.7-macosx10.3.dmg
    bb3d6f1e300da7fbc2730f1af9317d99  21509961  python-2.7-macosx10.5.dmg
    575156d33dc71b6581865a374f5c7ad2   5754439  python27.chm

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id1>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).