Python 2.7.3
------------

Python 2.7.3 was released on April 9, 2012. 2.7.3 includes fixes for several
reported security issues in 2.7.2: `issue 13703 <http://bugs.python.org/issue13703>`_ (oCERT-2011-003, hash
collision denial of service), `issue 14234 <http://bugs.python.org/issue14234>`_ (CVE-2012-0876, hash table
collisions CPU usage DoS in the expat library), `issue 14001 <http://bugs.python.org/issue14001>`_ (CVE-2012-0845,
SimpleXMLRPCServer denial of service), and `issue 13885 <http://bugs.python.org/issue13885>`_ (CVE-2011-3389,
disabling of the CBC IV attack countermeasure in the _ssl module).

The Python 2.7 series is scheduled to be the last major version in the 2.x
series before 2.x moves into an extended maintenance period.  The 2.7 series
contains many of the features that were first released in Python 3.1.
Improvements in this release include:

- An ordered dictionary type

- New unittest features including test skipping, new assert methods, and test discovery

- A much faster io module

- Automatic numbering of fields in the str.format() method

- Float repr improvements backported from 3.x

- Tile support for Tkinter

- A backport of the memoryview object from 3.x

- Set literals

- Set and dictionary comprehensions

- Dictionary views

- New syntax for nested with statements

- The sysconfig module

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's new in 2.7? <http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/2.7.html>`_

- `Change log for this release <http://hg.python.org/cpython/file/d46c1973d3c4/Misc/NEWS>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/2.7/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

- `Help fund Python and its community </psf/donations/>`_.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please `report any bugs <http://bugs.python.org>`_
you encounter.

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Gzipped source tar ball (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tgz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tgz.asc>`_

- `Bzipped source tar ball (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tar.bz2.asc>`_

- `XZ source tar ball (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tar.xz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/Python-2.7.3.tar.xz.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.msi>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI program database (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-pdb.zip>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.amd64.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 program database (2.7.3) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.amd64-pdb.zip>`_ `[1] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3.amd64-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows help file </ftp/python/2.7.3/python273.chm>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python273.chm.asc>`_

- `Mac OS X 64-bit/32-bit x86-64/i386 Installer (2.7.3) for Mac OS X 10.6 and 10.7 </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-macosx10.6.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id6>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-macosx10.6.dmg.asc>`_. [You may need an updated Tcl/Tk install to run IDLE or use Tkinter, see note 2 for instructions.]

- `Mac OS X 32-bit i386/PPC Installer (2.7.3) for Mac OS X 10.3 through 10.6 </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-macosx10.3.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id6>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/2.7.3/python-2.7.3-macosx10.3.dmg.asc>`_.

The source tarballs are signed with Benjamin Peterson's key (fingerprint: 12EF
3DC3 8047 DA38 2D18 A5B9 99CD EA9D A413 5B38). The Windows installer was signed
by Martin von L?wis' public key, which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2. The Mac
installers were signed with Ned Deily's key, which has a key id of 6F5E1540.
The public keys are located on the `download page </download#pubkeys>`_.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    c57477edd6d18bd9eeca2f21add73919  11793433  Python-2.7.3.tar.bz2
    62c4c1699170078c469f79ddfed21bc0   9976088  Python-2.7.3.tar.xz
    2cf641732ac23b18d139be077bd906cd  14135620  Python-2.7.3.tgz
    80461c3c60fae64122b51eb20341b453  22178854  python-2.7.3-macosx10.3.dmg
    15c434a11abe7ea5575ef451cfd60f67  18761950  python-2.7.3-macosx10.6.dmg
    008a63d89d67d41801a55ea341a34676  16221250  python-2.7.3-pdb.zip
    5e24faf0b64c59e5f11f1fcfe4644bf3  17376322  python-2.7.3.amd64-pdb.zip
    d11d4aeb7e5425bf28f28ab1c7452886  16420864  python-2.7.3.amd64.msi
    c846d7a5ed186707d3675564a9838cc2  15867904  python-2.7.3.msi
    9401a5f847b0c1078a4c68dccf6cd38a   5898853  python273.chm

**MISSING**
[1]  *(`1 <#id1>`_, `2 <#id2>`_)* The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).
**MISSING**
[2]  *(`1 <#id3>`_, `2 <#id4>`_)* There is important information about IDLE, Tkinter, and Tcl/Tk on Mac OS X here.  Also, on Mac OS X 10.6, if you need to build C extension modules with the 32-bit-only Python installed, you will need Apple Xcode 3, not 4.  The 64-bit/32-bit Python can use either Xcode 3 or Xcode 4.