Python 3.0.1
------------

    **Python 3.0 is end-of-lifed with the release of Python 3.1.**
    All users of Python 3.0 should upgrade to `Python 3.1 <../3.1/>`_.

Python 3.0.1 was released on February 13, 2009.  It was a bugfix
release of Python `3.0 <../3.0/>`_.

This is the first bugfix release of Python 3.0. Python 3.0 is now in
bugfix-only mode; no new features are being added.  Dozens of bugs that were
reported since the release of 3.0 final have been fixed.

Python 3.0 (a.k.a. &quot;Python 3000&quot; or &quot;Py3k&quot;) is a **new
version** of the language that is **incompatible** with the 2.x line of
releases.  The language is mostly the same, but many details,
especially how built-in objects like dictionaries and strings work,
have changed considerably, and a lot of deprecated features have
finally been removed.  Also, the standard library has been reorganized
in a few prominent places.

Here are some Python 3.0 resources: 

- `What's new in Python 3000 <http://docs.python.org/3.0/whatsnew/3.0.html>`_

- `Python 3.0 change log <NEWS.txt>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.0/>`_

- Read more in `PEP 3000 </dev/peps/pep-3000/>`_

- To help out, sign up for `python-3000@python.org <http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-3000/>`_

- Conversion tool for Python 2.x code: `2to3 <http://svn.python.org/view/sandbox/trunk/2to3/>`_

Please report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_ 

See also the `license <license>`_. 

Python 3.0.1 Released: 13-Feb-2009
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Download
--------

This is a production release; we currently support these formats: 

    - `Gzipped source tar ball (3.0.1) </ftp/python/3.0.1/Python-3.0.1.tgz>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.0.1.tgz.asc>`_

    - `Bzipped source tar ball (3.0.1) </ftp/python/3.0.1/Python-3.0.1.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.0.1.tar.bz2.asc>`_

    - `Windows x86 MSI Installer (3.0.1) </ftp/python/3.0.1/python-3.0.1.msi>`_ `(sig) <python-3.0.1.msi.asc>`_

    - `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (3.0.1) </ftp/python/3.0.1/python-3.0.1.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id6>`_ `(sig) <python-3.0.1.amd64.msi.asc>`_

    - `Mac OS X Installer Disk Image (3.0.1) </ftp/python/3.0.1/python-3.0.1-macosx2009-02-14.dmg>`_ (unsigned).

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    220b73f0a1a20c4b1cdf9f9db4cd52fe  11258272  Python-3.0.1.tgz
    7291eac6a9a7a3642e309c78b8d744e5   9495088  Python-3.0.1.tar.bz2
    be8f57265e1419330965692a4fa15d9a  13702656  python-3.0.1.amd64.msi
    ffce874eb1a832927fb705b84720bfc6  13434880  python-3.0.1.msi
    b17949fe1aa84c7b1b5c8932046c5b6f  16984391  python-3.0.1-macosx2009-02-14.dmg

The signatures for the source tarballs above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Barry Warsaw's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of EA5BBD71.
The Windows installers were signed by Martin von L?wis'
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.

Documentation
-------------

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.0/>`_ is updated twice a day

- `What's new in Python 3000 <http://docs.python.org/3.0/whatsnew/3.0.html>`_

- `Guido van Rossum's current blog <http://neopythonic.blogspot.com/>`_

- `Guido van Rossum's previous blog <http://www.artima.com/weblogs/index.jsp?blogger=guido>`_

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id2>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).