Python 3.1.1
------------

**Python 3.1.1 has been superseded by 3.1.2.** You can download `3.1.2 
</download/releases/3.1.2>`_. 

Python 3.1.1 was released on August 17th, 2009. 

Python 3.1 is a continuation of the work started by `Python 3.0 </download/releases/3.0.1>`_, the **new backwards-incompatible series** of
Python.  Improvements in this release include:

- An ordered dictionary type

- Various optimizations to the int type

- New unittest features including test skipping and new assert methods.

- A much faster io module

- Tile support for Tkinter

- A pure Python reference implementation of the import statement

- New syntax for nested with statements

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's New in 3.1? <http://docs.python.org/3.1/whatsnew/3.1.html>`_

- `What's new in Python 3000 <http://docs.python.org/3.0/whatsnew/3.0.html>`_

- `Python 3.1.1 Change Log <http://svn.python.org/projects/python/tags/r311/Misc/NEWS>`_

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.1/>`_

- Conversion tool for Python 2.x code: `2to3 <http://svn.python.org/view/sandbox/trunk/2to3/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

Help fund Python and its community by donating to the Python Software
Foundation.

Download
--------

This is a production release. 

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Gzipped source tar ball (3.1.1) </ftp/python/3.1.1/Python-3.1.1.tgz>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.1.1.tgz.asc>`_

- `Bzipped source tar ball (3.1.1) </ftp/python/3.1.1/Python-3.1.1.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.1.1.tar.bz2.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (3.1.1) </ftp/python/3.1.1/python-3.1.1.msi>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.1.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (3.1.1) </ftp/python/3.1.1/python-3.1.1.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id3>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.1.amd64.msi.asc>`_

- `Mac Installer disk image (3.1.1) </ftp/python/3.1.1/python-3.1.1.dmg>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.1.dmg.asc>`_

The source tarballs are signed with Benjamin Peterson's key (fingerprint: 12EF
3DC3 8047 DA38 2D18 A5B9 99CD EA9D A413 5B38). The Windows installers are signed
with Martin von L?wis' public key which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.  The public
keys are located on the `download page </download#pubkeys>`_.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    f1317dbb2398374d6691edd5bff1b91d  11525876 python-3.1.1.tgz
    d1ddd9f16e3c6a51c7208f33518cd674   9510105 python-3.1.1.tar.bz2
    d31e3e91c2ddd3e5ea7c40abe436917e  14130176 python-3.1.1.amd64.msi
    e05a6134b920ae86f0e33b8a43a801b3  13737984 python-3.1.1.msi
    9c7f85cc7fb5a2fa533d338c88229633  17148746 python-3.1.1.dmg

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id2>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).