Python 3.1.2
------------

Note: It is recommended that you use the latest bug fix release of the 3.1
series, `3.1.4 </download/releases/3.1.4>`_.

Python 3.1.2 was released on March 21st, 2010. 

The Python 3.1 version series is a continuation of the work started by Python
3.0, the **new backwards-incompatible series** of
Python.  Improvements in this release include:

- An ordered dictionary type

- Various optimizations to the int type

- New unittest features including test skipping and new assert methods.

- A much faster io module

- Tile support for Tkinter

- A pure Python reference implementation of the import statement

- New syntax for nested with statements

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's New in 3.1? <http://docs.python.org/3.1/whatsnew/3.1.html>`_

- `What's new in Python 3000 <http://docs.python.org/3.0/whatsnew/3.0.html>`_

- `Python 3.1.2 Change Log <http://svn.python.org/projects/python/tags/r312/Misc/NEWS>`_

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.1/>`_

- Conversion tool for Python 2.x code: `2to3 <http://svn.python.org/view/sandbox/trunk/2to3/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

Help fund Python and its community by donating to the Python Software
Foundation.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please report any bugs you may encounter to
`http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Gzipped source tar ball (3.1.2) </ftp/python/3.1.2/Python-3.1.2.tgz>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.1.2.tgz.asc>`_

- `Bzipped source tar ball (3.1.2) </ftp/python/3.1.2/Python-3.1.2.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) <Python-3.1.2.tar.bz2.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (3.1.2) </ftp/python/3.1.2/python-3.1.2.msi>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.2.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (3.1.2) </ftp/python/3.1.2/python-3.1.2.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id3>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.2.amd64.msi.asc>`_

- `Mac Installer disk image (3.1.2) </ftp/python/3.1.2/python-3.1.2-macosx10.3-2010-03-24.dmg>`_ `(sig) <python-3.1.2.sig>`_

The source tarballs are signed with Benjamin Peterson's key (fingerprint: 12EF
3DC3 8047 DA38 2D18 A5B9 99CD EA9D A413 5B38). The Windows installers are signed
with Martin von L?wis' public key which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.
The Mac disk image was signed by
Ronald Oussoren's public key which has a key id of E6DF025C.
The public
keys are located on the `download page </download#pubkeys>`_.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    08d01c468989d1f2cc560c23f8e6a7ea  11661773  Python-3.1.2.tgz
    45350b51b58a46b029fb06c61257e350   9719769  Python-3.1.2.tar.bz2
    a50d1fe2648783126c7a70654a08b755  14369280  python-3.1.2.amd64.msi
    098269f6057916821e41e82e7a7be227  14098432  python-3.1.2.msi
    597ba520c9c989f23464e0bf534db389  17418524  python-3.1.2-macosx10.3-2010-03-24.dmg

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id2>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).