Python 3.2.3
------------

Python 3.2.3 was released on April 10, 2012.  It includes fixes for several
reported security issues: `issue 13703 <http://bugs.python.org/issue13703>`_ (CVE-2012-1150, hash collision denial
of service), `issue 14234 <http://bugs.python.org/issue14234>`_ (CVE-2012-0876, Expat hash collision denial of
service), `issue 14001 <http://bugs.python.org/issue14001>`_ (CVE-2012-0845, SimpleXMLRPCServer denial of service),
and `issue 13885 <http://bugs.python.org/issue13885>`_ (CVE-2011-3389, disabling of the CBC IV attack countermeasure
in the _ssl module).

Python 3.2 is a continuation of the efforts to improve and stabilize the Python
3.x line.  Since the final release of Python 2.7, the 2.x line will only receive
bugfixes, and new features are developed for 3.x only.

Since `PEP 3003 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3003>`_, the Moratorium on Language Changes, is in effect, there are
no changes in Python's syntax and only few changes to built-in types in Python
3.2.  Development efforts concentrated on the standard library and support for
porting code to Python 3.  Highlights are:

- numerous improvements to the unittest module

- `PEP 3147 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3147>`_, support for .pyc repository directories

- `PEP 3149 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3149>`_, support for version tagged dynamic libraries

- `PEP 3148 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3148>`_, a new futures library for concurrent programming

- `PEP 384 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0384>`_, a stable ABI for extension modules

- `PEP 391 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0391>`_, dictionary-based logging configuration

- an overhauled GIL implementation that reduces contention

- an extended email package that handles bytes messages

- a much improved ssl module with support for SSL contexts and certificate hostname matching

- a sysconfig module to access configuration information

- additions to the shutil module, among them archive file support

- many enhancements to configparser, among them mapping protocol support

- improvements to pdb, the Python debugger

- countless fixes regarding bytes/string issues; among them full support for a bytes environment (filenames, environment variables)

- many consistency and behavior fixes for numeric operations

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's new in 3.2? <http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/3.2.html>`_

- `Change log for this release <http://hg.python.org/cpython/file/v3.2.3/Misc/NEWS>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.2/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

- `Help fund Python and its community </psf/donations/>`_.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please `report any bugs 
<http://bugs.python.org>`_ you encounter. 

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Bzipped source tar ball (3.2.3) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tar.bz2.asc>`_, ~ 11 MB

- `XZ compressed source tar ball (3.2.3) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tar.xz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tar.xz.asc>`_, ~ 8.5 MB

- `Gzipped source tar ball (3.2.3) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tgz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/Python-3.2.3.tgz.asc>`_, ~ 13 MB

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (3.2.3) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3.msi>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3.msi.asc>`_ and Visual Studio debug information files `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (3.2.3) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id4>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3.amd64.msi.asc>`_ and Visual Studio debug information files `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3.amd64-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows help file </ftp/python/3.2.3/python323.chm>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python323.chm.asc>`_

- `Mac OS X 64-bit/32-bit Installer (3.2.3) for Mac OS X 10.6 and 10.7 </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3-macosx10.6.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3-macosx10.6.dmg.asc>`_. [You may need an updated Tcl/Tk install to run IDLE or use Tkinter, see note 2 for instructions.]

- `Mac OS X 32-bit i386/PPC Installer (3.2.3) for OS X 10.3 through 10.6 </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3-macosx10.3.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2.3/python-3.2.3-macosx10.3.dmg.asc>`_

The source tarballs are signed with Georg Brandl's key, which has a key id of
36580288; the fingerprint is ``26DE A9D4 6133 91EF 3E25 C9FF 0A5B 1018 3658 0288``. The Windows installer was signed by Martin von L?wis' public key, which
has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.  The Mac installers were signed with Ned Deily's key,
which has a key id of 6F5E1540.  The public keys are located on the download
page.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    dcf3a738e7028f1deb41b180bf0e2cbc  12787688  Python-3.2.3.tgz
    cea34079aeb2e21e7b60ee82a0ac286b  10743046  Python-3.2.3.tar.bz2
    187564726f2c1473d301c586acc24847   8970368  Python-3.2.3.tar.xz
    389836f8b9d39e1366cb05e6ae302bd7  19550807  python-3.2.3-macosx10.3.dmg
    778b4038cbd4471e409942d4148effea  16229112  python-3.2.3-macosx10.6.dmg
    d8ef37dc27ca7f8625327c4696aa5942  18307042  python-3.2.3-pdb.zip
    a8199051a911466ee5585ede15893acd  20063304  python-3.2.3.amd64-pdb.zip
    01aae7d96fa1c5a585f596b20233c6eb  18554880  python-3.2.3.amd64.msi
    c176c60e6d780773e3085ee824b3078b  17829888  python-3.2.3.msi
    caaeaaa161de6819c10a5a8b0b208e40   5769675  python323.chm

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id1>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).
**MISSING**
[2]  *(`1 <#id2>`_, `2 <#id3>`_)* There is important information about IDLE, Tkinter, and Tcl/Tk on Mac OS X here.  Also, on Mac OS X 10.6, if you need to build C extension modules with the 32-bit-only Python installed, you will need Apple Xcode 3, not 4.  The 64-bit/32-bit Python can use either Xcode 3 or Xcode 4.