Python 3.2
----------

Note: A newer bugfix release, 3.2.3, is currently `available 
</download/releases/3.2.3/>`_.  Its use is recommended. 

Python 3.2 was released on February 20th, 2011. 

Python 3.2 is a continuation of the efforts to improve and stabilize the Python
3.x line.  Since the final release of Python 2.7, the 2.x line will only receive
bugfixes, and new features are developed for 3.x only.

Since `PEP 3003 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3003>`_, the Moratorium on Language Changes, is in effect, there are
no changes in Python's syntax and only few changes to built-in types in Python
3.2.  Development efforts concentrated on the standard library and support for
porting code to Python 3.  Highlights are:

- numerous improvements to the unittest module

- `PEP 3147 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3147>`_, support for .pyc repository directories

- `PEP 3149 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3149>`_, support for version tagged dynamic libraries

- `PEP 3148 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3148>`_, a new futures library for concurrent programming

- `PEP 384 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0384>`_, a stable ABI for extension modules

- `PEP 391 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0391>`_, dictionary-based logging configuration

- an overhauled GIL implementation that reduces contention

- an extended email package that handles bytes messages

- a much improved ssl module with support for SSL contexts and certificate hostname matching

- a sysconfig module to access configuration information

- additions to the shutil module, among them archive file support

- many enhancements to configparser, among them mapping protocol support

- improvements to pdb, the Python debugger

- countless fixes regarding bytes/string issues; among them full support for a bytes environment (filenames, environment variables)

- many consistency and behavior fixes for numeric operations

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's new in 3.2? <http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/3.2.html>`_

- `3.2 Release Schedule <http://python.org/dev/peps/pep-0392/>`_

- `Change log for this release <http://svn.python.org/projects/python/tags/r32/Misc/NEWS>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/3.2/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

- `Help fund Python and its community </psf/donations/>`_.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please `report any bugs 
<http://bugs.python.org>`_ you encounter. 

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Bzipped source tar ball (3.2) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tar.bz2.asc>`_, ~ 11 MB

- `XZ compressed source tar ball (3.2) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tar.xz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tar.xz.asc>`_, ~ 8.5 MB

- `Gzipped source tar ball (3.2) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/Python-3.2.tgz.asc>`_, ~ 13 MB

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (3.2) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2.msi>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2.msi.asc>`_ and Visual Studio debug information files `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (3.2) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id4>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2.amd64.msi.asc>`_ and Visual Studio debug information files `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2.amd64-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows help file </ftp/python/3.2/python32.chm>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python32.chm.asc>`_

- `Mac OS X 32-bit i386/PPC Installer (3.2) for OS X 10.3 through 10.6 </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2-macosx10.3.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2-macosx10.3.dmg.asc>`_

- `Mac OS X 64-bit/32-bit Installer (3.2) for Mac OS X 10.6 </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2-macosx10.6.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id5>`_ `(sig) </ftp/python/3.2/python-3.2-macosx10.6.dmg.asc>`_. [You may need an updated Tcl/Tk install to run IDLE or use Tkinter, see note 2 for instructions.]

The source tarballs are signed with Georg Brandl's key, which has a key id of
36580288; the fingerprint is ``26DE A9D4 6133 91EF 3E25 C9FF 0A5B 1018 3658 0288``. The Windows installer was signed by Martin von L?wis' public key, which
has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.  The Mac installers were signed with Ned Deily's key,
which has a key id of 6F5E1540.  The public keys are located on the download
page.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    5efe838a7878b170f6728d7e5d7517af  12673043  Python-3.2.tgz
    92e94b5b6652b96349d6362b8337811d  10592958  Python-3.2.tar.bz2
    563c0b4b8c8596e332cc076c4f013971   8877208  Python-3.2.tar.xz
    9086f91f5cb7c252752566dc8358a790  19495255  python-3.2-macosx10.3.dmg
    f827c26555e69847c63c9e350ea443c0  16199254  python-3.2-macosx10.6.dmg
    e7eb9ca03fa05131d4b6edcee050ceec  18364386  python-3.2-pdb.zip
    18d17934e72251fd2dcaeec2040418a1  20046920  python-3.2.amd64-pdb.zip
    2edc738a0445edc24c7e2039a269aaea  18558464  python-3.2.amd64.msi
    5860e37c5ff15cea4cda3698a756c81a  18041344  python-3.2.msi
    82300eb392f4f06b743d713cb2a66f11   5790291  python32.chm

**MISSING**
`[1] <#id1>`_  The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).
**MISSING**
[2]  *(`1 <#id2>`_, `2 <#id3>`_)* There is important information about IDLE, Tkinter, and Tcl/Tk on Mac OS X here.  Also, on Mac OS X 10.6, if you need to build C extension modules with the 32-bit-only Python installed, you will need Apple Xcode 3, not 4.  The 64-bit/32-bit Python can use either Xcode 3 or Xcode 4.