The Python Software Foundation Minutes of the Feb. 2002 Member Meeting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The members of the Python Software Foundation (the "Corporation") held
its second annual meeting on Feb. 6, 2002 at the Hilton Alexandria
Mark Center in Alexandria, Virginia.  Jeremy Hylton, secretary and
treasurer, presided over the meeting.

The following members attended the meeting:

- David Ascher
- Fred L. Drake Jr.
- Paul Everitt (representing Zope Corp.)
- Jeremy Hylton
- Martin von Loewis
- Skip Montanaro
- Tim Peters
- Paul Prescod
- Guido van Rossum
- Greg Ward
- Barry Warsaw
- Ka-Ping Yee
- Moshe Zadka

The following members were represented by proxy, according to written
requests received by the secretary:

- ActiveState proxy to David Ascher
- Thomas Heller proxy to Guido van Rossum
- Marc-Andre Lemburg proxy to Guido van Rossum
- Fredrik Lundh proxy to Tim Peters
- Trent Mick proxy to David Ascher

The members in attendance and represented by proxy consisted a quorum
according to the Bylaws.

The following non-members were also present at the meeting:

- David Abrahams
- Dan Connolly
- Robin Friedrich
- Jonathan Riehl

**Reports** 

The first order of business was a report on the Corporations
activities and finances in 2001 by Jeremy Hylton.  He reported that
very little activity took place during 2001.

The only significant expense was a donation of $2,000 to Jeff Elkner
and his students to finish production of their video aimed at students
and educators, titled "Introducing Python."  It is available online
at: 
`http://www.ibiblio.org/obp/pyBiblio/pythonvideo.php <http://www.ibiblio.org/obp/pyBiblio/pythonvideo.php>`_

Zope Corp. gave Elkner $2,000 in lieu of paying a sponsorship fee to
the Corporation.  ActiveState has not yet paid its sponsorship fee for
2001, but expects to soon.

The only other expenses incurred to date are a yearly retainer for the
law firm of Carlton Fields ($275) and a yearly fee to Delaware to
maintain our incorporation status ($20).

Paul Everitt described the background of Andrew Greenberg, an attorney
at Carleton Fields.  Greenberg has extensive software experience; he
contributed to a recent book on Squeak and developed computer games
like Wizardry.

**Members** 

Guido van Rossum present a list of new members for admission to the
Corporation, consisting primarily of members of the Python project at
SourceForge.  The potential new members have not filled out membership
applications, which is required by the Bylaws.  Therefore, the new
members were admitted contingent upon receipt of completed application.

Upon motion by Tim Peters, seconded by Paul Everitt, it was
unanimously

RESOLVED, that the following people be admitted as regular members of
    the Python Software Foundation contingent upon receiving a membership
    application from them in 2002:

- Aahz
- David Abrahams
- Anthony Baxter
- Don Beaudry
- David Beazley
- Paul Dubois
- Greg Ewing
- Neil Hodgson
- Michael Hudson
- Andrew Kuchling
- Cameron Laird
- Mark Lutz
- Alex Martelli
- Michael McLay
- Neal Norwitz
- Uche Ogbuji
- Mike Olson
- Andy Robinson
- Just van Rossum
- Sam Rushing
- Charles Waldman

David Abrahams was present and presented an application to the
secretary at the meeting.

(Note that Charles Waldman is already a PSF member, a point that was
overlooked at the meeting.)

Upon further discussion, several corporations were invited to be
sponsor members of the Corporation.  Upon motion by Guido van Rossum,
seconded by Ka-Ping Yee, it was unanimously

RESOLVED, that the following corporations be admitted as sponsor
    members of the Python Software Foundation contingent upon
    receiving a membership application from them in 2002:

- Archaeoptryx
- ASTi
- Hostway
- O'Reilly

**Elections** 

The next order of business was the election of a new board of
directors, in accordance with Section 5.5 of the Bylaws.  The
following members were elect to the the Board of Directors:

- David Ascher
- Jeremy Hylton
- Marc-Andre Lemburg
- Martin von Loewis
- Tim Peters
- Guido van Rossum
- Thomas Wouters

**Discussion** 

Marc-Andre Lemburg circulated a draft contributor agreement in
January.  The PSF intends to have each contributor to the Python CVS
repository sign the agreement and have it apply to all checkins.

The agreement was discussed at length, and compared the the Zope and
Mozilla agreements.  Paul Everitt described the Zope agreement as a
joint ownership model:  The committer and the PSF each receive
one-half interest of the copyright and intellectual property of any
checkin.

The members decided to circulate the draft agreement publicly for
review by potential contributors.  The public review period will end
by April 15.  At that time, the board will get legal review of the
agreement.

The members discussed plans for future Python conferences.  It was
agreed that a separate mailing list would be created for discussing
conference issues with the larger Python community.

**Adjournment** 

Since there was no further business, the meeting, on motion by David
Ascher and seconded by Guido van Rossum, was adjourned by unanimous
vote.