Minutes of the 2004 member meeting
==================================

The members of the Python Software Foundation (the "Corporation") 
held its annual meeting on March 25, 2004 at the George Washington
University's Cafritz Center in Washington, D.C.
Jeremy Hylton, secretary and treasurer, presided over the meeting.

The following members attended the meeting:

- David Ascher (also representing ActiveState)
- Steve Holden
- Jim Fulton (also representing Zope Corporation)
- Fred Drake
- Jeremy Hylton
- Thomas Wouters
- Barry Warsaw
- Paul Prescod
- Trent Mick
- Brett Cannon
- Anthony Baxter
- Neil Schemenauer
- Reggie Dugard representing Merfin LLC.
- Eric Jones
- Tim Peters
- David Goodger
- Laura Creighton representing AB Strakt
- Stephan Deibel
- Aahz
- Michael McLay
- Neil Norwitz
- Paul Dubois
- Guido van Rossum
- Andrew Kuchling (also representing Advanced Simulation Technology Inc.)
- Martin v. L?wis

The following members were represented by proxy:

**Proxy**  **for**

Guido van Rossum  Michael C. Olson                           Matthew Dixon Cowles                           Thomas Heller                           Jack Jansen

Neal Norwitz  Jason Tishler
Barry Warsaw  Skip Montonaro                       Peter Schneider-Kamp                       Jason Abate (Hostway)                       Ka-Ping Yee
Martin von Loewis  Marc-Andr? Lemburg
Steve Holden  Alex Martelli
David Ascher  Neil Hodgson                       Kevin Altis
Jeremy Hylton  Vinay Sajip 		       Sam Rushing
Tim Peters  Greg C. Ewing
Brett Cannon  Raymond Hettinger

Board Report
============

Jeremy Hylton presented the annual report of the board,
summarizing reports from individual committees.

The Python Support Committee (chaired by Marc-Andr?
Lemburg) has focus on fund raising. The Paypal system
was established and first donations were received. The
website features a ranking based on priorities. To date,
258 donations were received. The board has established
the notion of a pending sponsor member, which is a donor
who is likely to be voted as a sponsor member at the
next member meeting.

The python.org domain was transferred from CNRI, and work
is on progress on selecting contributor agreement. The most
recent suggestion from the lawyer to replace suggested three
contributor agreements with an individual one, has been well
received by the directors.

Treasurer Report
================

Neal Norwitz gave a brief summary of the PSF's financial 
status. The current balance are assets of $115k. He then
responded to detailed questions from the members on specific
numbers regarding the donations.

Sponsor members
===============

Jeremy presented a list of new proposed sponsor members. 43
ballots were collected, and all of the proposed members
have been elected, with the following number of aye/nay votes:
- Array BioPharma (38 ayes)
- BizRate.com (34 ayes)
- Enthough (39 ayes)
- Google (43 ayes)
- IronPort (40 ays)
- Open Source Application Foundation (43 ayes)
- Industrial Light & Magic (42 ayes, 1 nay)
- Opsware (37 ayes)
- ZeOmega (40 ayes)

Member voting
=============

After discussion, all proposed nominated members have been
elected, with the following votes:
- Hye-Shik Chang (39 ayes)
- Andrew Dalke (39 ayes)
- Jeff Elkner (38 ayes, 2 nays)
- Kurt B. Kaiser (40 ayes)
- Gustavo Niemeyer (38 ayes)
- Armin Rigo (43 ayes)
- Trevor Toenjes (34 ayes, 1 nay)
- Danny Yoo (43 ayes)

Board election
==============

After discussion, the following members were elected,
with the following number of votes:
- David Ascher (33)
- Stephan Deibel (24)
- Steve Holden (24)
- Jeremy Hylton (29)
- Martin v. L?wis (35)
- Tim Peters (35)
- Guido van Rossum (26)

Two candidates were not elected: Raymond Hettinger (16)
and Marc-Andr? Lemburg (18).

Discussion on Electronic votes
==============================

Marc-Andr? Lemburg has proposed that electronic voting among
members should become possible. This involves two aspects:
the bylaws need to be changed, and a trusted technical procedure
must be established. The board has asked members for feedback
whether such a change to the bylaws should be made.

In general, all members who spoke up were in favour of allowing
electronic votes. Thomas Wouters commented that a procedure must
provide secrecy, and he is willing to help establishing such
a procedure.

Discussion on spending money
============================

The board has asked members how they would like to spend the
funds that the PSF has available through grants, after withdrawing
necessary funds for organizing PyCon, and paying administrative
and legal expenses.

Jeremy Hylton proposed that a grant committee should be established,
which should then refrain from applying for their own funds.
Michael McLay volunteered to work on this committee.

Discussion on helping out
=========================

A number of members expessed willingness to help in the
day-to-day business of the PSF. Anthony Baxter pointed out
that most members, however, were not informed of ways in
which they could help. Paul Dubois suggested that roundup nosy lists should
be used to disseminate information among members. That lead
discussion to the future of round-up. Thomas Wouters reported
that XS4ALL will sponsor three machines for Python in the
near future: the web server, the mail server, and a third one,
which could run services like roundup.

Andrew Kuchling asked what happened to the web committee. Jeremy
reported that not much has happened. Barry Warsaw commented that
the pydotorg list solves only a part of the problem. Andrew
asked why Tim Parkin's efforts in improving the website had
no results. Guido van Rossum commented that he was in contact 
with Tim to resolve open issues. There was further discussion
on organizing the website. 

Adjournment
===========

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.