The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of the 2009 Members' Meeting 

March 27, 2009

The Python Software Foundation (the &quot;PSF&quot;) held its annual members'
meeting on March 27, 2009 at 12:10 CDT (17:10 UTC) at the Hyatt
Regency O'Hare hotel in Rosemont, Illinois, USA (PyCon 2009 Chicago).
The `agenda is available here <agenda/>`_.  Steve Holden presided
over the meeting.  David Goodger prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Election of Nominated Members <#election-of-nominated-members>`_

- `3   Election of Sponsor Members <#election-of-sponsor-members>`_

- `4   Number of Directors <#number-of-directors>`_

- `5   Election of a New Board of Directors <#election-of-a-new-board-of-directors>`_

- `6   Approval of Changes to the Bylaws <#approval-of-changes-to-the-bylaws>`_

- `7   Give Up Control of the Python Logo? <#give-up-control-of-the-python-logo>`_

- `8   Financial Report <#financial-report>`_

- `9   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

34 nominated members were present at the meeting: 

- David M. Beazley

- Steven Bethard

- Georg Brandl

- Titus Brown

- Brett Cannon

- Stephan Deibel

- Catherine Devlin

- Jeff Elkner

- Jim Fulton

- David Goodger

- Raymond Hettinger

- Steve Holden

- Michael Hudson

- Jim Hugunin

- Eric Jones

- Kurt B. Kaiser

- Andrew Kuchling

- Van Lindberg

- Martin von L?wis

- Alex Martelli

- Anna Martelli Ravenscroft

- David Mertz

- Trent Mick

- Doug Napoleone

- Travis Oliphant

- Samuele Pedroni

- Sean Reifschneider

- Guido van Rossum

- Jeff Rush

- James Tauber

- Barry Warsaw

- Thomas Wouters

- Moshe Zadka

- Brian Zimmer

12 representatives of sponsor members were present: 

- ActiveState, represented by Trent Mick

- ASTi, represented by David Ripton for Patrick Gaffney

- Canonical, represented by Michael Hudson for Steve Alexander

- CCP Games, represented by Kristj?n Valur J?nsson

- Enthought, represented by Eric Jones

- Google, represented by Guido van Rossum for Chris DiBona

- Merfin LLC, represented by Reggie Dugard

- Microsoft, represented by Jim Hugunin

- Strakt Holdings, represented by Samuele Pedroni for Laura Creighton

- Sun Microsystems, represented by Ted Leung

- ZeOmega, represented by Brad Allen for Sam Rangaswamy

- Zope Corporation, represented by Jim Fulton

13 members were represented by proxy (in parentheses): 

- Aahz (David Mertz)

- Facundo Batista (Barry Warsaw)

- Nick Coghlan (Brett Cannon)

- Matthew Dixon Cowles (Alex Martelli)

- Laura Creighton (Samuele Pedroni)

- Walter D?rwald (Barry Warsaw)

- Christian Heimes (Brett Cannon)

- Richard Jones (Brett Cannon)

- Marc-Andr? Lemburg (Barry Warsaw)

- Tim Peters (Barry Warsaw)

- John Pinner (Steve Holden)

- Peter Schneider-Kamp (Barry Warsaw)

- Trevor Toenjes (Barry Warsaw)

No members voted by absentee ballot. 

The PSF had a total membership of 108 (22 sponsor members & 86 active
nominated members) before the meeting.  59 members (55%) were in
attendance or represented by proxy, constituting a quorum according to
the Bylaws.  Note the discrepancy with the results below: only 57
votes were counted (53%).  It is assumed that two nominated members
who were also representing sponsor members only cast a single vote
where they had the right to cast two.

Several observers were also present, both nominees and invited guests.

`2   Election of Nominated Members <#id2>`_
-------------------------------------------

The individual nominations and summaries/recommendations were made on
the psf-members mailing list and recorded in the PSF private wiki, and
were not reviewed.  There was no discussion.

All proposed nominated members were elected (vote counts in
parentheses, for-against-abstain):

- Christopher Armstrong (40-0-17)

- Jim Baker (45-0-12)

- Ben Bangert (40-0-17)

- James Bennett (33-0-24)

- Jean-Paul Calderone (48-0-9)

- Graham Dumpleton (38-0-19)

- Martijn Faassen (48-0-9)

- Mike Fletcher (44-1-12)

- Michael Foord (51-0-6)

- Doug Hellmann (45-0-12)

- Adrian Holovaty (42-0-15)

- Jacob Kaplan-Moss (51-1-5)

- Matthias Klose (38-1-18)

- Glyph Lefkowitz (52-0-5)

- Duncan McGreggor (46-0-11)

- Jesse Noller (48-0-9)

- Benjamin Peterson (44-0-13)

- Ted Pollari (38-0-19)

- Mark Ramm (38-0-19)

- Phil Thompson (33-0-24)

- Malcolm Tredinnick (32-0-25)

- Kirby Urner (37-0-20)

- Dino Viehland (34-1-22)

- Thomas Waldmann (38-0-19)

- Frank Wierzbicki (40-0-17)

- Simon Willison (41-1-15)

`3   Election of Sponsor Members <#id3>`_
-----------------------------------------

Four companies have applied for sponsor membership.  The candidates
were discussed.  The Board had already recommended all four as pending
sponsor members.

After the discussion, all nominated sponsor members were elected (vote
counts in parentheses):

- PropertySold.ca (45-1-11)

- Lucasfilm (replaces emeritus member Industrial Light & Magic), (56-1-0)

- OpenEye Scientific Software (52-0-5)

- KNMP (49-0-8)

`4   Number of Directors <#id4>`_
---------------------------------

Previously, there were eight (8) positions. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the Board of Directors will consist of up to
    ten (10) Directors.

Approved, 50-3-4.

`5   Election of a New Board of Directors <#id5>`_
--------------------------------------------------

There were 10 candidates for the 10 board positions.  All were elected
(vote results in parentheses):

- Brett Cannon (54-0-3)

- David Goodger (53-2-2)

- Raymond Hettinger (53-0-4)

- Steve Holden (56-0-1)

- Andrew Kuchling (50-1-6)

- Martin von L?wis (49-0-8)

- David Mertz (46-2-9)

- Tim Peters (56-0-1)

- Jeff Rush (49-1-7)

- James Tauber (51-0-6)

`6   Approval of Changes to the Bylaws <#id6>`_
-----------------------------------------------

There were some requests for clarification of the changes to the
bylaws.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF adopts the proposed changes to its
    bylaws as documented at
    `http://www.python.org/psf/records/members/2009-03-27/bylaws/ <http://www.python.org/psf/records/members/2009-03-27/bylaws/>`_.

Approved, 53-0-4.

`7   Give Up Control of the Python Logo? <#id7>`_
-------------------------------------------------

There was much discussion of this resolution, with many members (and
an observer or two) clarifying their positions and how trademarks
work.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF stops enforcing control over the
    Python logo as a trademark, and licenses it as a work of art to
    anybody without any restrictions.

Defeated, 8-48-1.

`8   Financial Report <#id8>`_
------------------------------

Kurt Kaiser, the PSF Treasurer, reported on the financial status of
the PSF for 2008: a net income of $86,086 and total equity of
$453,397.

`9   Adjournment <#id9>`_
-------------------------

Steve Holden adjourned the formal part of the meeting at approximately
13:10 CST.  Informal discussion followed.