The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of the July 2010 Members' Meeting 

July 19, 2010

The Python Software Foundation (the &quot;PSF&quot;) held a semi-annual
members' meeting on July 19, 2010 19:00 CEST at
EuroPython, Birmingham, UK. Steve Holden presided over
the meeting. Marc-Andr? Lemburg and Pat Campbell prepared
these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Greetings & Roll Call <#greetings-roll-call>`_

- `3   Reports <#reports>`_

- `4   New Business <#new-business>`_

- `5   Community Service Award - 2010-Q2 <#community-service-award-2010-q2>`_

- `6   Frank Willison Award - 2010 <#frank-willison-award-2010>`_

- `7   Email Voting <#email-voting>`_- `7.1   Election Results <#election-results>`_- `7.1.1   Election of Nominated Members <#election-of-nominated-members>`_  - `7.1.2   Election of Sponsor Members <#election-of-sponsor-members>`_

- `8   Any Other Business <#any-other-business>`_

- `9   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

29 nominated members were present at the meeting: 

    - Steven Bethard

    - Paul Boddie

    - Georg Brandl

    - Brett Cannon

    - Dr.Tim Couper

    - Laura Creighton

    - Mark Dickinson

    - Michael Foord

    - Amaury Forgeot d'Arc

    - Zeth Green

    - Tim Golden

    - Jacob Hall?n

    - Raymond Hettinger

    - Steve Holden

    - Richard Jones

    - Holger Krekel

    - Marc-Andr? Lemburg

    - Martin von L?wis

    - Harald Armin Massa

    - John Pinner

    - Armin Rigo

    - Guido van Rossum

    - Christian Scholz

    - Michael Sparks

    - Phil Thompson

    - Dino Viehland

    - Thomas Waldmann

    - Alex Willmer

    - Quentin Wright

1 representative of sponsor members were present: 

    - Strakt Holdings, represented by Laura Creighton

8 Non-members were present: 

    - Floris Bruynooghe

    - Rob Collins

    - Clive Darke

    - Mark Fink

    - Thomas Heschenr?der

    - Valentin Janiaot

    - Joe Metcalfe

    - Lennart Regebro

`2   Greetings & Roll Call <#id2>`_
---------------------------------------

On July 19, 2010 the EuroPython Conference held its first PSF members'
meeting outside of the US in Birmingham, UK where Steve Holden, PSF
member and chairman of the board called the PSF Members' Meeting to
order.

PSF members (nominated and sponsor) and non-membered guest were greeted
and welcomed.

After the greeting, members and guests participated in the members'
meeting roll call by stating their names for the meeting attendance
records.

`3   Reports <#id3>`_
---------------------

There were no board or treasurer's report for this members' meeting.

`4   New Business <#id4>`_
--------------------------

New business discussions during the members' meeting revolved around
the following subject matter:

    - Interest in having regular PSF member meetings at EuroPython

    There was definitively interest in having PSF member meetings
    at EuroPython, so we will try to have regular meetings in the
    future.

    - Increasing awareness for the PSF in Europe

    This was briefly discussed. I mentioned the project for creation
    of Python marketing material, a project that is still in the
    preparation phase.

    - Discuss setting up a European PSF branch

    Several aspects of such a move were discussed, but since the whole
    project is rather complex, we will follow up on the ideas in a
    special interest group.

    - Discuss promotion of the new Honorary Associate Memberships

    The current state of the new membership form was discussed. The
    legal state has been setup by the board, the marketing texts have
    been prepared by Pat Campbell. Next to follow are: getting
    the payment system ready and then putting the marketing information
    up on the website.

    - Discuss setting up a PSF partner network

    This idea was regarded as better short-term alternative to the
    European PSF branch.

    The board will prepare a set of requirements a partner organization
    would have to fulfill and then invite organizations to the network.

    - Gathering networking information from the meeting attendees

    This was not discussed. We'll likely setup a wiki page for that
    information.

`5   Community Service Award - 2010-Q2 <#id5>`_
-----------------------------------------------

John Pinner was selected as the 2010 - 2nd quarter PSF Community
Service Award winner. The award was announced and presented by S.
Holden at the EuroPython Conference.

`6   Frank Willison Award - 2010 <#id6>`_
-----------------------------------------

Christian Tismer was proposed by the Board and selected
by O'Reilly as winner of the Frank Willison Award 2010.
The award was announced and presented by S. Holden at
the EuroPython Conference.

`7   Email Voting <#id7>`_
--------------------------

The July 2010 members' election took place after the members'
meeting held at the EuroPython Conference. Votes were cast
electronically via email during the voting period which began on
2010-08-10 and ended on 2010-08-23.

`7.1   Election Results <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`7.1.1   Election of Nominated Members <#id9>`_
###############################################

The individual nominations and summaries/recommendations were made on
the psf-members mailing list and recorded in the PSF private wiki.

All proposed nominated members were elected (vote counts in
parentheses, yes-no-abstain):

- Noah Gift (49-6-24)

- Laurens Van Houtven (44-2-33)

- Terry Peppers (44-2-33)

- Stephen Thorne (45-1-33)

`7.1.2   Election of Sponsor Members <#id10>`_
##############################################

One company applied for sponsor membership. The Board had
already recommended the applicant as a pending sponsor member.

The nominated sponsor member was elected (vote counts in
parentheses, yes-no-abstain):

- Exoweb Ltd. (62-0-17)

`8   Any Other Business <#id11>`_
---------------------------------

None.

`9   Adjournment <#id12>`_
--------------------------

Steve Holden thanked everyone for attending and adjourned the
informal members' meeting at approximately 20:30 (CEST),
local time.