Report on the Python Software Foundation's participation in the 2007 Google Summer of Code
==========================================================================================

James Tauber, PSF Administrator for the 2007 Google Summer of Code 

2007-12-12

SUMMARY
-------

2007 was another successful year for the PSF's participation in the
Google Summer of Code. We received 67 valid applications and were
allocated 34 slots by Google. 51 people signed up to be mentors and 30
of those ended up mentoring a student. We approved 32 applications of
which 25 were successful. At least a third of the students continue to
have some involvement in their projects.

DETAIL
------

Based on past experience, we decided that: 

- We would only allow applications that entailed involvement in existing projects, rather than new projects entirely from scratch where the student would not have the opportunity to interact with other developers.

- The PSF would continue to act as an umbrella organization for Python-related projects as long as:- a certain number of slots were dedicated to Python core / library development  - the projects, in some way, promoted Python and helped the Python community (rather than &quot;simply being written in Python&quot;)

In hindsight, I do think this led to a reduction in the number of
applications we received. Other organizations reported a high rate of
success on projects initiated by the student and so it may be worth
revisiting 1 above.

51 people signed up to be mentors. The majority of these were lead
developers from Python-related projects although there were a number
of core developers that signed up as well.

We received 71 student applications of which 4 were rejected outright
as invalid. Based on application quality and availability of suitable
mentors we requested a maximum 34 slots. Google allocated us the
full 34. It should be noted that this is greatly disproportional to
the total number of applicants when compared with other
organizations. This was due in part to the success of the PSF as a
mentoring organization in the past as well as an obvious indication of
Google's commitment to Python.

We ended up accepting 32 of the applications. Only one was failed
mid-term and then another six were failed at the end term. While some
of the remaining 25 were only marginally successful there were some
true success stories.

Google has stated a number of times that one of the major goals of the
program is to help organizations recruit new committers. While I don't
have an accurate account of how many students have stayed with their
projects, more that 80% of the mentors who responded last month to the
question said their students had contributed to the code beyond the
time frame of the Summer of Code. This represents at least a third of
the total successful students. In some cases, the students continue to
be highly active.

A number of mentors expressed that their own effort had not been
sufficient. More than half the mentors whose students only &quot;just
passed&quot; put the blame, in part, on themselves. I propose that next
year, the organization administrator *not* be a mentor so that he or
she can be focused on facilitating other mentoring, checking in how
each project is going on a regular basis.

Myself and two of the mentors, including PSF director David Goodger,
attended a mentor summit at Google in October. Included below is a
summary of my own notes from the event:

- Some projects had a standard code test they gave all applicants. While I didn't hear any PSF mentors complain about the coding ability of their students, I thought it might be worth trying next year. It also provides a first test of how dedicated the applicant is.

- Some projects did Skype or IRC interviews to assess the student's communication ability. Again, I'm not sure PSF projects had issues that this would have solved but I still liked it as an idea.

- Next year, if I'm admin, I'd really like not to be a mentor. I think there would be value in me being solely focused on admin (in part to implement some of the ideas listed here).

- Some projects had students create profile pages in a central location.  I think this is a great idea.

- Some projects got all their students to make screencasts demoing their projects.  I think this is an awesome idea.

- Many people felt that the most successful topics were the ones the students came up with.  I'm still thinking how to balance that with my view that the student needs to work with existing code and coders and not just do something standalone and in isolation.

- Google really emphasized that their goal is for the students to stay with the projects beyond GSoC.- So we should do post-mortems to see how many students are still working on the projects months after GSoC.  - It also means you pick the student more than the project they'll be doing over the summer.

- Any mentors planning on failing a student should probably talk to the admin first (although PSF had no problems this year AFAIK).

- There should probably be mentor training, or at least some better communication to mentors of what's expected of them.

To help mentors better communicate expectations to the students, Will
Guaraldi started a wiki page at
`http://wiki.python.org/moin/SummerOfCode/Expectations <http://wiki.python.org/moin/SummerOfCode/Expectations>`_

While there is clearly room for improvement, this should not detract
from the fact that it was another very successful Summer of Code for
PSF and the Python community as a whole.

It's worth noting that there was substantial Python-related work under
the administration of other, project-specific organizations. For
example, Zope, Plone, wxPython, Django, Bazaar, SCons and MoinMoin all
participated outside of the PSF umbrella. There were undoubtedly other
projects that involved coding in Python as well.

I thank the PSF for the opportunity to be the organization
administrator and hope I will be considered for the same next year.

James