The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

March 8, 2001

Long Beach, Calif., USA

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "Foundation")
Board of Directors was held at the Hilton Long Beach at 2 p.m.  Dick
Hardt, president of the Foundation, presided at the meeting.

**1. Attendance** 

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
Meeting: David Ascher, Paul Everitt, Fredrik Lundh, Tim Peters, Guido
van Rossum, Greg Stein, Thomas Wouters.  No members were absent.

A quorum was present. 

Also in attendance was Dick Hardt, president of the Foundation. 

**2. Duties of President** 

The meeting began with a discussion of the role of the president.
Hardt asked for a mandate that described what he should do, what
limits he should observe, and what directives the Board wished to give
him.

**3. Budget** 

*Action Item:* Hardt was directed to draft a budget for Board approval. 

The board discussed how the Foundation should fulfill its educational
role, specifically how should it use its budget to further its
educational objectives.

The Board unanimously adopted the resolution

    RESOLVED, that the Foundation will not pay for development or
    documentation for Python or other software that the Foundation
    owns or makes available as Open Source software.

**4. Communications** 

The Foundation needs mailing lists for communicating with members and
the public.  It also needs a Web site.

*Action Item:* Greg Stein will create mailing lists. 

*Action Item:* Greg Stein will set up Web pages. 

**5. Sponsor discussion** 

The Board directed Hardt to continue seeking out sponsor members.
There was a discussion of what freedom he should have to perform
branding activities.  The Board allowed him to develop the brand, but
warned against over-promotion or dilution.

The Board further directed Hardt to seek out sponsor members that
visibly or actively use Python.  There was concern that a potential
member might use the Foundation as a marketing vehicle for itself.

*Action Item:* Paul Everitt will prepare a short paper on how to sell
Python to managers.

**6. Voting procedures** 

There was a long discussion about valid ways for the members to vote. 

*Action Item:* Greg Stein will determine how to vote in new members
under the Bylaws.

The Board reach a basic consensus that it wanted to enable some kind
of email or electronic voting, provided that it is legally allowed.
The Board expressed an intent to change the Bylaws at its next
meeting, when the text of the necessary changes will be provided.

*Action Item:* Paul Everitt will determine the conditions under which
the Board can amend the Bylaws.

**7. Python Interest Groups** 

The Foundation will collect references to Python Interest Groups, but
does not intend to assist with the organization or operation of such
groups.  If a member is interested in leading the activity, the
Foundation could provide overall coordination and guidance to groups.

**8. Intellectual property** 

The Board discussed several issues related to contributions of
intellectual property.  It concluded that the Foundation should
formalize its policies and craft legal documents and contributor forms
that address the issue.  The Board must decide whether to require
copyright transfers or to accept licensing arrangements.

*Action Item:* Hardt will continue working with the current owners of
Python's intellectual property -- the Corporation for National
Research Initiatives (CNRI), BeOpen, and Stichting Mathematisch
Centrum (CWI) -- to arrange transfer of ownership or licensing to the
Foundation.  He should also formally complete the transfers of IP from
Digital Creations for recent Python development and Mark Hammond for
Pythonwin.

**9. Tax-exempt status** 

The Board discussed the requirements of operating a non-profit
corporation and questions about seeking recognition as a tax-exempt
charity from the IRS.

**10. Adjournment** 

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:00
p.m.