The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

August 13, 2002. 

A regular regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the
"PSF") Board of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 1:05 pm
EST.  Guido van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of
the Board, presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following Board members were present: Tim Peters, Guido van
   Rossum, David Ascher, Martin von Loewis, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Thomas
   Wouters.  The following members were absent: Jeremy Hylton.
   The Board had quorum.

2. Agenda
#########

- Minutes of the previous meeting where not available yet, so       they could not be reviewed.
- Python Support Committee.
- New members.
- Affero.com.
- Lawyer review of the contribution forms.
- python.com and trademarking Python Powered.

Python Support Committee
########################

Marc-Andre Lemburg moves that it is 

RESOLVED, That the Public Support Committee (PSC) be made up of the
following initial members: Stephan Deibel, Jeremy Hylton, Marc-Andre
Lemburg, Tim Peters, Aahz, Alex Martelli, Neil Norwitz and Greg Ward,
that the committee follows rules analog to those set forth in the PSF
bylaws for the PSF board with respect to voting and meetings, and that
Marc-Andre Lemburg will be the initial chairman of the PSC.  I move to
approve this motion.

The motion passes unanimously. 

Marc-Andre expect that the PSC will start working in September,
after the vaction time is over.

New Members
###########

Guido asks whether the new members that were voted in at the OSCON
meeting know about their membership. Martin says that this hasn't
happened, and that he will inform them.

Affero.com
##########

Affero has requested that the python.org mailman installation is
integrated with the link inserter software. The Board discusses the
question whether this should be done.

Thomas is not fond of that idea; David agrees. Marc-Andre asks what
precisely Affero is requesting; Thomas explains that people put Affero
links in their signatures, to indicate what organizations should be
funded, and that Affero requests that Python can be one of the funded
organizations. Marc-Andre says he can agree with that.

Thomas says he won't mind being one of the funds, but would not
like to promote Affero. Guido explains that Affero wants us (the PSF)
to put Affero's links into our mailing lists, and says this is a no-go
for him. David and Thomas agree; Marc-Andre is in favour of being one
of the beneficiaries, but does not want to see further steps. Thomas
adds that he misunderstood Affero's plan, and suggests that each list
owners can decide on his own. Guido says that list owner will likely
come to the same conclusion, making it a subscriber choice. So the PSF
does not need to act.

David says that we are already one of the Affero's funds. Tim
reports that he cannot find the PSF in
http://www.affero.com/cform2.html. Guido says he we ask Affero about
this, and tell them our position.

Lawyer review of contribution forms
###################################

Chris Rourk has sent an informal opinion on the forms. The meeting
agrees that his comments are better discussed on the board mailing
list.

python.com and trademarking Python Powered
##########################################

Guido reports that python.com uses the the slogan "powered by
python". It is not clear whether trademarking the slogan "Python
Powered" would help to protect the PSF from trademarking problems with
python.com.

Thomas observes that the python.com logo looks similar to the Zope
logo, but Guido thinks that the similiarity is not close enough to
worry about.

Thomas offers to ask his company's lawyer what the best approach
would, especially as he is located in the Netherlands, as is
python.com. He promises an answer by the next board meeting.

Guido says he would not like to spend money on the registration if
that can be avoided.

Adjournment
###########

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.