The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

September 10, 2002. 

A regular regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the
"PSF") Board of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 1:10 pm
EST.  Guido van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of
the Board, presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following Board members were present: Tim Peters, Guido van
Rossum, David Ascher (late), Martin von Loewis, Thomas Wouters.  The
following members were absent: Marc-Andre Lemburg, Jeremy Hylton.  The
Board had quorum.

2. Agenda
#########

- Minutes of previous meetings.
- Python Support Committee.
- Contribution Forms.
- New members.
- Python Conference.

Minutes of previous meetings
############################

The minutes of the August 13 meeting, written by Martin von Loewis,
were approved unanimously (before David Ascher showed up).

The minutes of the July meeting have not yet been written by Jeremy
Hylton.

Python Support Committee
########################

This item was skipped because Marc-Andre Lemburg was not present.

Contribution Forms
##################

This item was skipped because Marc-Andre Lemburg was not present.

New Members
###########

Martin von Loewis has mailed Robin Dunn and Eric Jones, and they
have mailed me back that they sent the forms.  He has not received
confirmation from Jeremy.

It is noted that the board has not seen any recent emails from Jeremy
Hylton on incoming paperwork.  It is unclear if this is because there
was no incoming paperwork or because Jeremy has not had time for his
responsibilities as PSF secretary.

Python Conference
#################

Guido van Rossum gave an overview of a proposal on the table for a
Python Conference to be organized by Yet Another Society (YAS) in
March 2003 at GWU in Washington, DC.  A summary of this proposal is in
the `conferences-discuss archives <http://mail.python.org/pipermail/conferences-discuss/2002-August/000161.html>`_.

YAS hasn't signed the contract with GWU yet, at least in part
because the YAS board feels uncomfortable with the price point of
$125/attendee.  The budget is approximately $30,000, 10% of which is
due immediately.

At Guido's request, the board voted on the following motion:

    RESOLVED, that Guido van Rossum can offer Adam Turoff that
    the PSF will take full financial responsibility for the conference if
    YAS is unwilling to run the conference at a $125/attendee fee.

The motion was approved with four ayes, and one abstention, from Tim
Peters, who feels he doesn't understand the issues enough to put the
entire PSF's finances at risk.  Guido is confident that we can get
enough attendees, and offers to take this offline with Tim.

Adjournment
###########

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 1:45
pm EST.