The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

December 10, 2002. 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 13:02 PM PCT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Tim Peters, Guido van Rossum, Thomas Wouters,
Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von Loewis. A quorum was present.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the meeting minutes of November 12th. Motion
passes with 2 abstentions and 4 ayes.

3. Secretary/Treasurer's report
###############################

Hylton has sent out invoces to Strakt Holdings and Merfin LLC.  The
bank transfer from Sweden to US didn't work out right for Strakt due
to routing problems. Hylton will get in touch with the the bank to
sort this out.  There was no news on the state of the Merfin LLC
payment.

Lemburg asked for the bank account details of the PSF bank account
needed for the activities of the Public Support Committee (PSC) in
order to accept donations via wire-transfer. Jeremy said he'd call up
the bank to find out.

4. Python Conference (PyCon) report
###################################

Van Rossum reported that the conference organization is moving along
well.  He has signed the contract and paid 10% of the cost as a
deposit.  The next 15% are due 30 days before the start of the event.
Van Rossum will get a quote for insurance.  The estimate is that
insurance for the event only will cost about $500.  The conference
committee has started publishing the event and set some dates.

Wouters asked how well the paper submissions are going. Van Rossum
mentions that the deadline is too close, but that he has no further
information on this.

5. Python Support Committee (PSC) status report
###############################################

Lemburg reported that the PSC is looking into taking the first steps
towards setting up online donations and using the ShareIT service
(http://www.shareit.com/) for this. Von Loewis questioned the use of a
shareware reseller for the PSF's purposes. Lemburg explained that
ShareIT is offering good services for reasonably low costs (compared
to other online payment providers).

Hylton asked whether the PSC had already asked ShareIT for permission
to use their service in the way intended by the PSC (sending out
"Thank You" PDF files as product in return for the donation). Lemburg
replied that the question has been forwarded to ShareIT pending an
answer.

Van Rossum suggested that the PSC get Chris Rourk's opinion on the
ShareIT contract and the possible implications of using ShareIT for
online fund raising. The motion to accept the ShareIT contract was
postponed until after the legal review.

6. Contribution forms status report
###################################

Nothing to report.

8. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 13:34 PM
EST.