The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feb. 7, 2002

Alexandria, VA, USA

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF")
Board of Directors was held at Clyde's in Alexandria, VA.  Guido van
Rossum presided at the meeting.

**1. Attendance** 

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
Meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Martin von Loewis, Tim Peters, Guido van
Rossum.  The following members were absent: Marc-Andre Lemburg, Thomas
Wouters, David Ascher.

A quorum was present. 

**2. Address** 

The principal office of the PSF was located at the Zope
Corp. PythonLabs office in Falls Church, VA.  The office was closed in
December, so a new principal office was selected.  The board chose the
Zope Corp. office in Fredericksburg, VA.  It is convenient for three
of seven board members, and the business people there can accept mail
and faxes on normal business days.

    **RESOLVED**, the the principal office of the PSF shall be

    The Python Software Foundation

    c/o Zope Corp.

    Lafayette Technology Center

    513 Prince Edward St.

    Fredericksburg VA 22401

    USA

    *The motion passed by white ballot.*

**3. Public discussion** 

Following up on discussion at the member meeting the previous
night, we decided to create two mailing lists open for discussion
to non-PSF members: one to discuss the future of the conference,
one to discuss the contribution forms.  The discussion period on
contribution forms will end on April 15, when we will seek legal
review of the forms.  Van Rossum will ask Barry Warsaw to create the
lists.

**4. Officers** 

Guido van Rossum was appointed chairman of the board.  Jeremy Hylton
was appointed secretary and treasurer.  Both appointments were by
unanimous vote.

**5. New members** 

Van Rossum will contact potential new sponsor members, except one
prospect that Hylton will contact.  Hylton will also contact potential
new regular members via email.

**6. Adjournment** 

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.