The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

April 8, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:05 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting:
Thomas Wouters, David Ascher, Guido van Rossum, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, Jeremy Hylton. 
A quorum was present. Neal Norwitz also participated in the meeting. 

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the minutes of March 11th. Motion passes
with 6 ayes and 1 abstention.

3. Treasurer appointment
########################

Neal has volunteered to take over the treasurer position from Jeremy.
He will get all documents from Jeremy, and a procedure to give him access
to the PSF maildrop will be established. Jeremy moves to appoint Neal
as the treasurer. Motion passes with 7 ayes. The board thanks Neal for
volunteering.

4. Grant proposals
##################

Jeremy reports that several PSF members (Michael McLay,
Keven Altis, Aron Traurin, Dan Moore) have been suggested that
the PSF applies for grants for Python development. Possible
sponsors are the Mellon Foundation, Intel, and DARPA. Board
members ask how the money would be spent if it were granted.
One option is to sponsor individuals with it, like Guido for
working on Python 3. Zope Corporation might also be the prime
contractor of the grant, or Metaslash (Neal's company).  There 
is concern that funding PSF members or PSF officers 
with granted money may be a problem.

The board concludes that a committee should be formed to
review grant proposals that volunteers may draft; no decision
to form such a committee is taken at this time. Tim will be
responsible for forming the committee.

5. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 17:45.