The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

August 12, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 10:00 PDT.  Guido van
Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Thomas Wouters, David Ascher, Guido van Rossum, Marc-Andre
Lemburg, Tim Peters, Jeremy Hylton. A quorum was present. Neal Norwitz
also participated in the meeting.

2. Python.org transfer
######################

Pursuant to a contract signed between CNRI and Guido van Rossum, transfer
of the python.org domain name will be made from CNRI to the PSF.  The board
agreed to transfer the hosting to XS4ALL and Thomas Wouters volunteered to
execute that transfer.  No transfer of registrar is planned for the short
term.  It was agreed that we should pay 5 years in advance to avoid 
lapsing.

3. Conference budget approval
#############################

Steve Holden not being present and no figures being available at
the time of the meeting, the conference budget was not discussed or
approved.

4. Archaeopteryx Member Status
##############################

Archaeopteryx is a sponsor member with past dues.  As such,
Archaeopteryx' membership rights are suspended as per the bylaws.  The
transition from sponsor member to emeritus member can be done either
voluntarily at the member's request or by a two thirds vote of the
membership. Thus, it was

    RESOLVED, that the treasurer contact Archaeopteryx and
    suggest that they either pay their sponsorship fee or volunteer to
    become emeritus members.

Motion approved unanimously.

5. Press Releases
#################

Stephan Deibel has in the past paid for press releases for Python
releases out of pocket.  The board felt that there was some value to
the press releases and that they are part of the PSF's mission.  Thus,
it was

    RESOLVED, that the PSF approves a $500/year budget for
    the Public Support Committee to pay for distribution of press
    releases.

Motion approved with 4 ayes, 0 nos and 2 abstentions.

6. Website Executive Committee
##############################

It was

    RESOLVED, That a Project Management Committee, designated
    Python Website Committee, be formed to be responsible for the content
    and management of the Python Website (www.python.org), that its
    initial members be Thomas Wouters, Kevin Altis, Just van Rossum, Aahz
    and Fred L. Drake Jr., that it follows rules analog to those set for
    in the PSF bylaws for the PSF board with respect to voting and
    meetings, and that Thomas Wouters will be its initial chairman.

Motion approved unanimously.

7. Treasurer report
###################

The treasurer report was deferred to email discussions.

8. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00
PDT.