The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

September 9, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Ascher, Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, 
Jeremy Hylton.  Thomas Wouters was absent.  A quorum was present. 
Neal Norwitz and Aahz also participated in the meeting.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

Guido moved to approve the minutes of June 10. Motion passes
with 5 ayes, 0 nays and 0 abstentions.

Guido moved to approve the minutes of August 12. Motion passes
with 4 ayes, 0 nays and 1 abstention.

PyCon
#####

It was

    RESOLVED, to let the treasurer immediately write a check to George
        Washington University for up to $2500 to reserve the space for PyCon
        2004 (the actual amount to be 10% of the estimated total price).

Motion approved unanimously.

PMC Clarification
#################

The Board wanted to clarify the status of two previously created
committees.  Thus, it was 

    RESOLVED, That the Public Support Committee and Python Website
        Committee, created earlier by resolution of the board, are Project
        Management Committees according to Section 6.3 of the Bylaws and that
        the chairmen of these committees, Marc-Andre Lemburg and Thomas
        Wouters, respectively, are hereby appointed Vice Presidents of the
        corporation.

Motion approved unanimously.

Sponsor Members
###############

It was

    RESOLVED, That the officers of the Corporation may, at their
        discretion, recognize certain donors as pending sponsor members of the
        corporation, when it is expected that the donor will be admitted as a
        sponsor member at the next meeting of the members.  A pending sponsor
        member may participate in all activities and be listed as a pending
        sponsor member, but may not vote at meetings.

Motion approved unanimously.

Sponsor Member Policy
#####################

The board agreed to modify the PSF web pages to include:

    Any organization is welcome to apply for
        sponsor membership - however, approval of the membership
        is conditional on a member vote at a member meeting, and the
        Board may issue a recommendation to the members regarding
        the application.

    Potential applicants should know that the Board feels
        that membership in the PSF should reflect well on all
        sponsor members and the PSF.  To this end,

    The Board encourages applications from organizations
        with a provable and strong link to Python (e.g.
        organizations that use Python as a key piece of
        their software infrastructure).

    The Board discourages applications from organizations
        with unethical business practices
        (e.g. pornography vendors or spammers).

python.org domain name transfer
###############################

Thomas was waiting for CNRI's zone file which he received today.
The rest will happen shortly.

Contribution Forms
##################

David agreed to discuss MAL's questions re: the contribution forms
with Mark Yang, and to report back to the board list.
MvL will then take it up with Larry Rosen after telling MAL
he's relieved from his task (unless MAL protests).

Adjournment
###########

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.