The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

February 11, 2003. 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 1 p.m. EST. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Tim Peters, Guido van
Rossum.  A quorum was present.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings.
########################################

Guido moved to approve the meeting minutes of January 14th. Motion
passes unanimously.

3. Contributor forms.
#####################

Lemburg reported that Chris Rourk will not be available to review
contributor forms for a couple of weeks.  The board decided to seek
paid advice from Larry Rosen.

The Board unanimously adopted the resolution

    RESOLVED, that the foundation will pay up to $1,000 for legal
       review of the contributor agreement.

5. PyCon
########

Van Rossum reported that registration is open and papers have been
selected.  There were 15 people registered at the time of the meeting.
We will need roughly 150 to 200 people registered to break even.

The next 15 percent of the money to George Washington Univ. is due on
Feb. 24, which is four days before the early registration deadline.
Van Rossum will notify the board of the registration status a few days
before the 24th. 

The board felt there was a need to better publicize the conference.

6. Members meeting
##################

The PyCon schedule has time reserved for a members meeting.  The
bylaws require that an annual meeting to elect board members be held
within 13 months of the previous election.  A quorum of 19 members,
present or voting by proxy, would be required.

7. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 1:30
p.m.