The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

December 9, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Ascher, Jeremy Hylton, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Tim Peters,
Guido van Rossum, and Thomas Wouters.  A quorum was present.  Neal
Norwitz also participated in the meeting.

2. Reports
##########

`Treasurer's Report </psf/records/board/treasurer/2003-12/>`_ 

`Python Conference Committee Report </psf/records/board/conference/2003-12/>`_

3. PyCon
########

The board discussed preparations for PyCon and concern about the
apparent lack of activity among the organizers.  Norwitz reported that
registration is working.  Ascher said that Steve Holden, the
conference chair, could devote four hours per week to planning
activities; others will need to help.

4. Sponsor membership
#####################

The board voted to accept BizRate.com as a pending sponsor member,
by a 5-1-1 vote.

A few board members said they would like to encourage some
companies that want to support to make donations instead of becoming
sponsor members.  The board agreed that the Public Support Committee
should do more to encourage and recognize donations from non-member
companies.

Tim Peters moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Foundation accepts Industrial Light & Magic as
    a pending sponsor member.

The motion passed unanimously (7-0-0).

5. PSF license
##############

Marc-Andre Lemburg reported on continuing efforts to revise the
Python license.  The board was in favor of making the Python license
more generic.  Lemburg said he would discuss it with Larry Rosen, who
is doing other licensing work for the Foundation.

6. DNS transfer
###############

Wouters reported that the latest attempt to transfer ownership of
the python.org domain from the Corporation for National Research
Initiatives (CNRI) to the Foundation failed.  Norwitz said he would
make another attempt today.  He will also open an account with
Verisign.

7. Reports in board minutes
###########################

The board discussed several issues related to the minutes.  It
agreed on several conventions for writing minutes:  Action items
should be clearly marked in the minutes.  Reports from officers and
committees should be included in the minutes; personal information in
the treasurer's report may need to be expunged.  A link to the minutes
should be sent to the psf-members list after the minutes are posted.

9. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.