The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

October 14, 2003 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Guido
van Rossum, president of the Foundation and chairman of the Board,
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Thomas Wouters, Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim
Peters, Jeremy Hylton, David Ascher, Marc-Andre Lemburg.  A quorum was
present. Neal Norwitz also participated in the meeting.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The minutes of the September meeting had not been prepared yet;
they will be discussed next month.

3. SSL Server Certificates
##########################

Thomas asked whether the PSF should buy an official server certificate
at some recognized certificate authority, or whether python.org should
just use a self-signed certificate. He reported that it would be $450
for the first year, and $300 each subsequent year. Initially, the certificate
would only be used for pypi. After discussion, the board agreed not
to buy a certificate at this point, and just accept the warnings that browsers
will issue if they receive unverified certificates.

4. Contrib Forms
################

Marc-Andre reported that discussion of contrib forms with Larry
Rosen has stopped, partly due to Larry's attempt to talk the PSF into
switching to the AFL. Marc-Andre proposed that the PSF should not
switch licenses, and ask Larry for comments on the contribution
documents at hand. He also mentioned that David's lawyer might still
provide comments on these documents. After discussion, the board
agreed that Marc-Andre continues on this road.

5. Project Management Committee
###############################

Guido moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Foundation establish a Project Management
    Committee, the Python Conference Committee, responsible for organizing
    and sponsoring conferences that advance the Foundation's mission.  The
    committee is authorized to incur expenses up to a limit establish by
    the board for a specific conference.  The chairman of the committee
    shall be Vice President of the Corporation.  The initial members of
    the committee shall be David Ascher, Steve Holden, and Jeremy Hylton.
    Ascher will be its initial chairman.

The motion passed unanimously (7/0/0).

6. Pending Sponsor Members
##########################

Guido moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Board can collect sponsor fees and add a
    Pending Sponsor Member to the website prior to being elected by the
    members if the Board decides it is likely the full membership will
    approve the Sponsor Member.  If Sponsor Membership status is not
    approved, the funds will be converted to a donation.

The motion passed unanimously (7/0/0). 

Jeremy moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Board accepts Array BioPharma as a
    Pending Sponsor Member.

The motion passed unanimously (7/0/0). 

Neal will inform Array BioPharma about this decision.

7. Trademark Registration
#########################

Guido moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the PSF secretary, Jeremy Hylton, registers
    the term "PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION" on behalf of the Python Software
    Foundation under the service class 042 with US PTO.

There was discussion; Jeremy asked whether David's lawyer can guide
him through the actual registration process. The motion then passed
unanimously (7/0/0).

David left the meeting because of other obligations.

8. Python support committee
###########################

Guido moved that it is

    RESOLVED, that the Public Support Committee, represented by
    its chairman and officer Marc-Andre Lemburg, may signup for bookshop
    affiliate programs on behalf of the Python Software Foundation for
    fund-raising purposes.

The motion passed unanimously (6/0/0).

9. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.