The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

July 13, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 17:00 GMT. Guido van Rossum
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Martin v. L?wis, Tim Peters, Guido van Rossum, Steve
Holden. Jeremy Hylton joined after the first agenda item. Neal Norwitz
also attended the meeting. Martin was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The June minutes where approved with 3/0/1.

3. Reports
##########

Steve reported that the PR committee has worked on new site definitions.

Jeremy reported that the conference committee has found the evaluation forms
from the last conference. GWU is unavailable for March 2005, so the committee
looks for alternative times/locations.

4. New Python License
#####################

Marc-Andre Lemburg has suggested a new license for Python. David Ascher has
asked his company lawyer for comments, and he suggested corrections. There was
discussion how to proceed with this issue. Guido proposed that somebody drafts
a new version including the comments, and proposes it to the board for the next
meeting. *Tim volunteers to do so.*

5. Contrib Forms
################

David Ascher had suggested that the proposed forms are 
presented to some corporate lawyers we know. *Martin will contact them.*

Martin also asked about the board's view on a patent clause. Tim remarked
that Larry Rosen considered a patent clause unnecessary for a contributor's
agreement. Guido said given David's argument in favour of such a clause,
he is now +0 for including it. *Martin will post
a revised version of the form to the members list, and ask members specifically
whether they consider a patent clause necessary.*

Jeremy brought up the question of a PSF lawyer. He has a lead, and asked
for board approval for contacting a lawyer. Several board members confirmed
that he, being a PSF officer, needs no official permission, and encouraged
him to proceed.

6. Adjournment
##############

Their being no further business, Guido adjourned the meeting at 17:45GMT.