The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Draft**

February 10, 2004 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Martin
von L?wis presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Guido van Rossum, Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, Jeremy
Hylton, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Thomas Wouters. Neal Norwitz also
participated in the meeting. A quorum was present. Martin was taking
minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

The December minutes where not available yet. The January minutes
were approved with 4 ayes and 2 abstentions.

3. Member meeting
#################

Martin asked for the procedure for electing the new board. The
ballot could either be a ranked list (by preference), or just a
list of names. The board agreed that the ballot should not imply
a preference.

Marc-Andre reported concerns about the proposed change to
the bylaws; in particular, Jeremy raised concerns that a lawyer
should review such changes. He withdrew the motion, and the board
agreed that the issue should be discussed at the member meeting.

4. Extension of early-bird fee deadline for PyCon
#################################################

Marc-Andre asked why the deadline for the early-bird fee was
extended, and who made this decision. Jeremy answered it was a stealth
decision, as neither the conference committee nor the pycon-organizers
list were involved. Guido said there never was a clear decision
point. People discussed it as a good idea, them somebody got confused
and Steve Holden reported it suddenly as decided. Marc-Andre pointed
out that he agrees with the decision itself, but doesn't like the
way it was handled.

5. PyCon report
###############

Neal reported there were 204 confirmed registrations, and about
$44700 income. Jeremy reported that the program committee selected 49
proposals, 8 60-minutes talks, and the rest 30 minutes talks. They
invited Bruce Eckel to give a third keynote speach. The schedule was
not decided, but Jeremy expected to have only two parallel sessions
most of the time.

Marc-Andre asked whether we are on target wrt. the budget. Neal
answered that he believes we will stay within budget, but he had no
estimates for food cost yet (and assumed they will be $95/person).

Jeremy asked to compare the registration numbers with last year.
Neal reported there were 235 attendees, 186 of which registered
before the early-bird deadline (which ended March 1).

5. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.