The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Special Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

March 25, 2005 

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF")
Board of Directors was held at George Washington University on March
25 at noon.  Stephan Deibel presided.  Jeremy Hylton recorded the
minutes.

1. Attendance
#############

A quorum was present.  All board members and treasurer Neal Norwitz
attended the meeting.  David Ascher arrived late, because he was not
informed of the meeting in advance.

2. Appointment of officers
##########################

The board appointed officers by unanimous vote.  The officers are:
- Stephan Deibel, chairman of the board
- Guido van Rossum, president
- Neal Norwitz, treasurer
- Kurt Kaiser, assistant treasurer
- Jeremy Hylton, secretary

The board asked Hylton to appoint an assistant secretary and to
avoid taking on tasks unless he was sure he could complete them.

Norwitz reported that we would be taking a sabbatical later in the
year and may not be able to serve as treasurer then.  The board
encouraged him to get Kaiser more involved in regular operations.

3. Project management committees
################################

The board discussed the status of its existing committees.  Several
committees may be dissolved or re-chartered later in the year, including
the conference committee, the public relations committee, and the
grants committee.  It decided to make decisions about those committees
at its next meeting.

The board re-appointed Deibel as chair of the public support
committee.  It created a new committee, the infrastrucure project
management committee, with Richard Jones, Andrew Kuchling, and Barry
Warsaw as initial members.  Kuchling was appointed chair of the
committee and vice president for infrastructure.  The board encourage
the committee to make concrete plans for improving python.org
infrastructure and to address technical infrastructure broadly.

4. Business items from members meeting
######################################

Stephan Deibel will respond to the legal concerns raised at the PSF
meeting.  Rob Page of Zope Corp. will send a list of specific
questions about the current contributor agreement.

We will not have a member meeting at EuroPython, because Van Rossum is
the only officer or director who is going to attend.  We will arrange
a social or informational event there.

Kuchling plans to improve the gender diversity of PyCon presenters and
attendees for next year. Hylton will look at improving diversity in
the broader Python / PSF community.

Ascher will take the lead on developing a trademark policy for the PSF.

5. Resignation
##############

Guido van Rossum resigned as a director, but will continue to serve as
president.

6. Adjournment
##############

The meeting adjourned at 1 p.m.