The Python Software Foundation   Minutes of Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

January 11, 2005 

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (the "PSF") Board
of Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat at 18:00 GMT. Stephan Deibel
presided at the meeting.

1. Attendance
#############

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Jeremy Hylton, Stephan Deibel, David Ascher, Tim Peters,
Martin v. L?wis and Steve Holden. Neal Norwitz was also
present. Steve was taking minutes.

2. Meeting minutes of past IRC meetings
#######################################

No minutes were available for approval.

3.Reports
#########

Neal informed the Board that Kurt Kaiser had volunteered to act as
Assistant Treasurer. It was agreed Kurt should be added to the
psf-board mailing list.

Neal further informed the Board that a contribution of stock in a
public company had been received. The general feeling of the Board
was that speculative investments were not appropriate at this time,
and so Neal will investigate disposing of the stock. No
resolution is necessary for this sale.

4. PyCon PSF Q&A; Session
#########################

Stephan reminded everyone that there was to be a "PSF Question
and Answer" sessions at PyCon, probably of 15 or 30 minutes duration,
and asked for volunteers to represent the Foundation. All agreed
they would be happy to do so, and so it was decided that this
should be a plenary session, possibly around lunch time.

5. Sponsor Member Application: Active Grid
##########################################

Stephan reported that Active Grid wished to be considered for
Sponsor Membership at the next Members Meeting. It was

    RESOLVED that ActiveGrid is accepted as a pending Sponsor
     Member for approval by the PSF Membership at the next PSF member meeting
     (in March 2005).  Approved 7-0-0.

6. PyCon Attendance: Travel and Accommodation Support
#####################################################

Steve reported that Guido had requested funding to attend PyCon,
as his employer would not fund the necessary travel and accommodation.
Given Guido's special position in the Python community it was

    RESOLVED that the PSF will pay for Guido van Rossum's expenses to attend
     PyCon 2005, up to $2,500 total. Approved 6-0-1.

A discussion followed about similar support for individuals 
whose presence the Board
felt would enhance the conference. While it was too late for this year the
Board as a whole felt that this should really be the subject of policy in
future years to avoid the appearance of favoritism. It was

    RESOLVED that the Python Conference Committee is given additional funds
     of up to $3,000 to pay attendance costs for individuals attending PyCon
     2005 , at the discretion of the Conference Committee. Approved 7-0-0.

7. Web Site Redesign
####################

Steve reported that a proposal had been received from Tim Parkin of
Pollenation Internet to revise the www.python.org web site's structure
and means of content management. It was

    RESOLVED, that the board approves payment of a total of 4,000 GBP to Tim
     Parkin for redevelopment of the python.org website as described in his
     proposal.  Payment will take place in two installments of 2,000 GBP, at
     the prevailing exchange rate of up to US $2/GBP), one payment before the
     work commences and one after the deliverables described in the proposal
     have been provided.  Approved 6-1-0.

6. Adjournment
##############

There being no further business, Stephan adjourned the meeting at 19:03.