The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Special Meeting of the Board of Directors 

February 25, 2006

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held at PyCon in Dallas at 12:15 CST (18:15 UTC), 25
February 2006.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.

1   Attendance
--------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Stephan Deibel, Martin von L?wis, Andrew Kuchling, Tim
Peters, David Goodger, Brett Cannon, Steve Holden, and David Ascher.
Also in attendance were Neal Norwitz, and Jeremy Hylton.  M. v. L?wis
and D. Goodger prepared these minutes.

2   Election of Officers
------------------------

Guido van Rossum was re-elected as the President of the Foundation,
with 8 votes in favour.  Stephan Deibel was re-elected as the
Chairman, with 7 votes in favour, and 1 abstention.  David Goodger was
elected as the Secretary, with 7 votes in favour, and 1 abstention.
Kurt Kaiser was re-elected as the Treasurer, with 8 votes in favour.
Neal Norwitz was re-elected as the Assistant Treasurer, with 8 votes
in favour.  Jeremy Hylton was elected as Assistant Secretary, with 8
votes in favour.

David Ascher, Martin v. L?wis, Andrew Kuchling, and Brett Cannon
were elected as Vice Presidents, and David Ascher as Executive
Vice President, each with 8 votes in favour.

3   Changes to Committees
-------------------------

Brett Cannon was appointed as the chairman of the Infrastructure
Committee, with 8 votes in favour.

4   Other Business
------------------

David Ascher proposed to register PyCon as a trademark for
the PSF; he will contact Milind Shaw about that.

Steve Holden will contact Brian Fitzpatrick, VP of public
relations for the Apache Software Foundation.

David Goodger will create a calendar of recurring PSF
business events to remember.

Martin v. L?wis will update the list of email addresses of
PSF members.

Stephan Deibel will approach the sponsor members about
potential changes to sponsorship fees, such as the introduction of
sponsorship levels.

5   Adjournment
---------------

S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at 13:30 CST (19:30 UTC).