The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

August 13, 2007

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 17:00 UTC, 13
August 2007.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.  David Goodger
prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Status of Past Action Items <#status-of-past-action-items>`_- `3.1   Carried Forward <#carried-forward>`_  - `3.2   New in July <#new-in-july>`_

- `4   PyCon UK Sponsorship Request <#pycon-uk-sponsorship-request>`_

- `5   New Sponsor Member: EarnMyDegree.com <#new-sponsor-member-earnmydegree-com>`_

- `6   Copyright Transfers <#copyright-transfers>`_

- `7   Advocacy Coordinator <#advocacy-coordinator>`_

- `8   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: David Goodger, Tim Peters, Martin von L?wis, Steve Holden,
Stephan Deibel, and Andrew Kuchling.  Also in attendance was Kurt
Kaiser (Treasurer).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 9 July 2007 Board meeting minutes were approved by a 5-0-1
vote (*in favor ? opposed ? abstentions*).

`3   Status of Past Action Items <#id3>`_
-----------------------------------------

(Pending action items appear like this.) 

`3.1   Carried Forward <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following are action items carried forward from the 9 July 2007
meeting, as highlighted in the minutes (Section 3, Status of Past
Action Items):

- Originally from October 2005, Section 4, Public Support Committee: D. Goodger will pursue web page and installer donation link ideas.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from June 2006, Section 6, PSF Records: The Board agreed to assemble the existing records in one place, have them scanned, and enter them into the PSF data repository. D. Goodger will coordinate this work and maintain the records.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from August 2006, Section 10: T. Peters will ask the advice of Larry Rosen regarding concerns with the contributor agreement.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from December 2006, Section 4, Jython Contributor Agreements: A. Kuchling will write to the Jython contributors and ask them to sign contributor agreement forms.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 12, Awards: S. Holden will prepare a proposal for a PSF awards program.     The benefits of PSF awards were discussed.  S. Holden will propose an award next month, with nomination and voting suggestions.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 16, Reviving the Grants Program: D. Goodger will send email to PSF-members about recruiting: a leader for a new grants program, an Assistant Secretary, and an Assistant Treasurer.     D. Goodger sent a call for new Grants Committee leadership on August 3, and Laura Creighton stepped forward.  A call for assistants was sent August 13, with no responses yet.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 18, Bylaw Change Survey: S. Holden will call for a separate discussion of changes to the bylaws.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from April 2007, Section 5, Assistants: S. Deibel will work with the Treasurer and Secretary to write up calls for assistants.     Status: **dropped** (see item 6).

- Originally from April 2007, Section 6, Python Package Index (Cheese Shop): A. Kuchling will ask Thomas Wouters about increasing the memory on ximinez, and getting another machine for PyPI.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from April 2007, Section 9, New PSF Members: D. Goodger will contact the PSF members not subscribed to the PSF-Members mailing list.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 4, Frank Willison Award: D. Goodger will coordinate the selection of the 2007 recipient of the Frank Willison Award.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 4, Frank Willison Award: D. Goodger will set up a page on www.python.org to list the recipients of the Frank Willison Award.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 6, EuroPython Sponsorship: A. Kuchling will contact the EuroPython organizers to arrange for the PSF's sponsorship.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 7, PyCon Uno (Italy): D. Goodger will produce a PSF logo based on the Python logo.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 7, PyCon Uno (Italy): D. Goodger will look into making PSF banners.     Status: carried forward.

`3.2   New in July <#id5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These action items originated at the 9 July 2007 board meeting on IRC. 

- Section 4, Trademark Watch: S. Deibel will update the trademark policy and announce it to the community.     Status: **done**.

- Section 5, Frank Willison Award: D. Goodger will inform O'Reilly of the Board's decision to name Steve Holden as the winner of the 2007 Frank Willison Award.     Status: **done**.

- Section 6, Potential New Sponsor Member: K. Kaiser will ask the organization applying for sponsor membership for information about themselves, and will inform them of other support options.     Status: **done**.

- Section 6, Potential New Sponsor Member: K. Kaiser will send the Board details of a recently-received sponsor member application.     Status: **done**.

`4   PyCon UK Sponsorship Request <#id6>`_
------------------------------------------

S. Deibel reported a request from John Pinner on behalf of the PyCon
UK Society (organizers of the PyCon UK conference), for PSF
sponsorship to fund: an additional room, A/V equipment rental, the
travel expenses of some attendees, printing costs, and insurance.

    RESOLVED, that the PSF will become a sponsor of PyCon UK 2007 and
    will donate US $2,500 to The PyCon UK Society for its use in
    running the conference.

Approved 6-0-0. 

S. Deibel will inform the PyCon UK Society of the PSF's
sponsorship, and will request an invoice, payment information, and
sponsorship details.

`5   New Sponsor Member: EarnMyDegree.com <#id7>`_
--------------------------------------------------

EarnMyDegree.com is a company/website whose goal is to connect
prospective students to quality education options.  They use Python
for many projects.  Nik Papic of EarnMyDegree.com wrote: &quot;We're
pleased with what we've seen and would like to show our support by
giving back to the Python community.&quot;

    RESOLVED, that the board of directors recommends EarnMyDegree.com
    to the membership, as a future sponsor member of the PSF.

Approved 6-0-0. 

K. Kaiser will notify EarnMyDegree.com of their pending
sponsor member status and send an invoice for sponsor dues.

`6   Copyright Transfers <#id8>`_
---------------------------------

S. Deibel reported that K. Kaiser sent out copyright transfer
agreements and nominal payments to Tim Parkin for the python.org
design (css, etc.) and for the Python logo, and also to Michael
Bernstein for the PyCon logo.  The transfer agreements are to be
returned to the Secretary, D. Goodger.

`7   Advocacy Coordinator <#id9>`_
----------------------------------

S. Deibel reported that Jeff Rush, the Advocacy Coordinator, has
updated `http://wiki.python.org/moin/AdvocacyAccomplishments <http://wiki.python.org/moin/AdvocacyAccomplishments>`_.  Jeff has
some more screencasts almost ready.

M. von L?wis asked if the screencasts are properly linked into the
website where appropriate.  Deibel replied that the main A/V page is
`http://www.python.org/doc/av/ <http://www.python.org/doc/av/>`_ but he didn't think the 5 minute series
is linked in yet.  &quot;When ready I think it should also get some sort of
place on the home page.&quot;  von L?wis suggested the &quot;topic guides&quot; also.

`8   Adjournment <#id10>`_
--------------------------

S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at 17:47 UTC.