The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Special Meeting of the Board of Directors 

February 25, 2007

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held at PyCon 2007 in Dallas at 12:30 CST (18:30 UTC),
25 February 2007.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.  David
Goodger prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Election of Officers <#election-of-officers>`_

- `3   Motion to Dissolve the Grants Committee <#motion-to-dissolve-the-grants-committee>`_

- `4   Motion to Dissolve the Public Support Committee <#motion-to-dissolve-the-public-support-committee>`_

- `5   Discussion of the &quot;Twisted Foundation&quot; <#discussion-of-the-twisted-foundation>`_

- `6   Conference Committee <#conference-committee>`_

- `7   Budget & Action Plan <#budget-action-plan>`_

- `8   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Stephan Deibel, Andrew Kuchling, Brett Cannon, Steve Holden,
and David Goodger.  Also in attendance was Guido van Rossum
(President).

`2   Election of Officers <#id2>`_
----------------------------------

The following officers were elected by acclamation: 

**MISSING**
**MISSING**
**President:**  Guido van Rossum

**Chairman:**  Stephan Deibel

**Vice Chairman:**  Steve Holden

**Secretary:**  David Goodger

**Treasurer:**  Kurt Kaiser

**Assistant Treasurer:**

Neal Norwitz

**Executive Vice President:**

Brett Cannon

**Vice President:**  Andrew Kuchling

`3   Motion to Dissolve the Grants Committee <#id3>`_
-----------------------------------------------------

As the Grants Program begun in 2004 has concluded, 

    **RESOLVED**, that the Grants Committee is dissolved.

Approved by a 5-0-0 vote (*in favor ? opposed ? abstentions*). 

A new Grants Committee may be formed in the future for a new Grants
Program.

`4   Motion to Dissolve the Public Support Committee <#id4>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

As the Public Support Committee (PSC) has been inactive for some time, 

    **RESOLVED**, that the Public Support Committee is dissolved.

Approved by a 5-0-0 vote.

`5   Discussion of the &quot;Twisted Foundation&quot; <#id5>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Twisted project is actively working toward establishing a
foundation, and have informally approached the PSF for sponsorship.
After discussion, it was decided to take no action at present.  The
idea of the PSF as an umbrella organization was revisited.

`6   Conference Committee <#id6>`_
----------------------------------

D. Goodger summarized the PyCon 2008 bids presented at morning
meetings during the conference (Saturday February 24 & Sunday February
25).

**Chicago**: Ted Pollari presented a bid from ChiPy (the Chicago
Python User Group) for Chicago at the Crowne Plaza Chicago O'Hare
hotel, with talk days on March 14-16 (Friday-Sunday), a tutorial day
before, and sprints after.  The hotel's meeting space is much larger
than that of the Marriott in Dallas: a ballroom almost triple the
size, and many more rooms for tutorials and break-out sessions.  The
hotel has more sleeping rooms as well.  The hotel's room rate is
$99/night (+ tax), with a 10% commission to PyCon.  The Chicago bid
includes provision for hiring the meeting planner they have been
working with; the meeting planner will handle hotel negotiations and
many logistical tasks.

**San Francisco Bay Area**: Alvin Wang presented a bid for PyCon 2008
& 2009 at the San Mateo Marriott, with talk days February 22-24 2008
and February 20-23 2009, a tutorial day before, and sprints after.
The attraction of the Bay area is the proximity to so many high-tech
companies, and the warmer weather.  The room rate is $119 (+ tax),
non-commissionable.  The meeting space is comparable to that of the
Dallas Marriott, with more small & medium-sized rooms but a slightly
smaller main ballroom.

After some discussion, considering the potential for growth of PyCon
in 2008 and considering the room rate,

    **RESOLVED**, that the Chicago bid be accepted for PyCon 2008.

Approved by a 5-0-0 vote. 

The San Francisco Bay Area may be revisited for a future PyCon.  The
Board thanks Alvin Wang for his efforts.

The Conference Committee should decide on venues with a lead time of
at least 18 months.  The venue for PyCon 2009 should be decided well
before PyCon 2008 is underway.

Regarding PyCon 2007, the experiment of piping sound into the hall for
the lunchtime presentations was deemed less than successful.  Perhaps
presentations during lunch should be rethought.

`7   Budget & Action Plan <#id7>`_
--------------------------------------

S. Holden suggested that a focus on travel grants and sprints may be
the most effective use of our funds.

The concept of a target asset balance or reserve, and the $150,000
figure for a target asset balance, were both approved informally.

Idea: establish funding guidelines (bright-line rules) and/or a
funding FAQ.

`8   Adjournment <#id8>`_
-------------------------

S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at 13:45 CST (19:45 UTC).