The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

May 14, 2007

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 17:02 UTC, 14
May 2007.  Stephan Deibel presided at the meeting.  David Goodger
prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Status of Past Action Items <#status-of-past-action-items>`_- `3.1   Carried Forward <#carried-forward>`_  - `3.2   New in April <#new-in-april>`_

- `4   Frank Willison Award <#frank-willison-award>`_

- `5   Funding for Jornada Python en Santa Fe (Argentina) <#funding-for-jornada-python-en-santa-fe-argentina>`_

- `6   EuroPython Sponsorship <#europython-sponsorship>`_

- `7   PyCon Uno (Italy) <#pycon-uno-italy>`_

- `8   Request to Change python.org Home Page <#request-to-change-python-org-home-page>`_

- `9   Advocacy Coordinator Progress <#advocacy-coordinator-progress>`_

- `10   Budget Discussion <#budget-discussion>`_

- `11   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Stephan Deibel, David Goodger, David Ascher, Tim Peters,
Brett Cannon, and Martin von L?wis.  Also in attendance was Kurt
Kaiser (Treasurer).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 9 April 2007 Board meeting minutes were approved by a 5-0-1
vote (*in favor ? opposed ? abstentions*).

`3   Status of Past Action Items <#id3>`_
-----------------------------------------

(Pending action items appear like this.) 

`3.1   Carried Forward <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following are action items carried forward from the 9 April 2007
meeting, as highlighted in the minutes (Section 3, Status of Past
Action Items):

- Originally from October 2005, Section 4, Public Support Committee: D. Goodger will pursue web page and installer donation link ideas.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from June 2006, Section 6, PSF Records: The Board agreed to assemble the existing records in one place, have them scanned, and enter them into the PSF data repository. D. Goodger will coordinate this work and maintain the records.     D. Goodger reported that he purchased a multifunction scanner/printer, and will start scanning and organizing records soon.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from August 2006, Section 10: T. Peters will ask the advice of Larry Rosen regarding concerns with the contributor agreement.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from December 2006, Section 4, Jython Contributor Agreements: A. Kuchling will write to the Jython contributors and ask them to sign contributor agreement forms.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 4, Tasks for the Secretary: D. Goodger will update the Membership Roster web page.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 4, Tasks for the Secretary: D. Goodger will update the PSF Committees wiki page, and convert the wiki page to a regular web page.     `http://www.python.org/psf/committees/  <http://www.python.org/psf/committees/>`_      Status: **done**.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 4, Tasks for the Secretary: D. Goodger will consult the PSF's lawyer to ask if the proxy forms and absentee ballots from the members' meeting should be kept or destroyed.     Van Lindberg replied:          Best practice is to keep the ballots.  501c organizations     should be run like a regular company, so they are still     required to have (and keep) articles, bylaws, board minutes,     etc.     D. Goodger will put the forms and ballots in an envelope, seal it, and file it.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 12, Awards: D. Goodger will follow up with Nathan Torkington of O'Reilly regarding the Frank Willison Award.     See `Frank Willison Award <#frank-willison-award>`_ below.      Status: **done**.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 12, Awards: S. Holden will prepare a proposal for a PSF awards program.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 16, Reviving the Grants Program: D. Goodger will send email to PSF-members about recruiting: a leader for a new grants program, an Assistant Secretary, and an Assistant Treasurer.     D. Goodger noted that this overlaps with the new action item from April 2007, Section 5, Assistants: &quot;S. Deibel will work with the Treasurer and Secretary to write up calls for assistants.&quot;     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 18, Bylaw Change Survey: S. Holden will call for a separate discussion of changes to the bylaws.     S. Holden reported that he has begun a review of the bylaws and should have it ready to mail out a week or so before the next Board meeting.     Status: carried forward.

`3.2   New in April <#id5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These action items originated at the 9 April 2007 board meeting on
IRC.

- Section 4, PyCon: A. Kuchling will prompt the Dallas/Addison Marriott Quorum hotel to send an invoice for PyCon 2007.     K. Kaiser confirmed that the invoice was received and promptly paid.     Status: **done**.

- Section 5, Assistants: S. Deibel will work with the Treasurer and Secretary to write up calls for assistants.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6, Python Package Index (Cheese Shop): A. Kuchling will ask Thomas Wouters about increasing the memory on ximinez, and getting another machine for PyPI.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 9, New PSF Members: D. Goodger will contact the PSF members not subscribed to the PSF-Members mailing list.     Status: carried forward.

`4   Frank Willison Award <#id6>`_
----------------------------------

D. Goodger reported: 

    I got a reply from O'Reilly.  They just need a name from us, and
    Betsy Waliszewski will handle the certificate & the prize (a pass
    to OSCON).  One month's notice prior to OSCON is enough for
    O'Reilly -- so we should target mid-June... which is coming up
    fast.  I will coordinate this with Betsy Waliszewski of O'Reilly.

    I suggest asking Guido and past winners for candidates, then
    bringing it to the Board for a vote.  If we go this route,
    obviously current PSF Directors and Officers either would not be
    eligible, or [nominees] would have to recuse themselves.

    As for the recipient having to be present at OSCON, that was a
    misunderstanding.  Nat Torkington just wants to know in advance if
    the person will be there or not, to avoid confusion when
    presenting the award.  It's okay to award to someone in absentia.

    I asked about the possiblitiy of funding the OSCON travel & hotel
    of the recipient.  Betsy Waliszewski and Nat Torkington will get
    back to us on that.

    I will set up a page on www.python.org to list the recipients of
    the Frank Willison Award.  I'd like to include photos of
    recipients with their awards.  Andrew Kuchling has a couple of
    photos up on his site and on Flickr, and I'd like to get photos of
    the other recipients too.

    Betsy Waliszewski sent a 2006 certificate to Alex Martelli.  I
    informed Anna that it would be arriving.  She intercepted it,
    noticed that the wording was strange (&quot;for his outstanding
    contribution to the python community in 2006&quot;), and asked Betsy to
    redo it (remove &quot;in 2006&quot;, and add the date separately).  A
    revised certificate has been received and presented to Alex.

The Board agreed with the suggested approach to selecting recipients,
and that any Directors nominated should recuse themselves from
deliberations.

D. Goodger will coordinate the selection of the 2007
recipient of the Frank Willison Award.

D. Goodger will set up a page on www.python.org to list the
recipients of the Frank Willison Award.

`5   Funding for Jornada Python en Santa Fe (Argentina) <#id7>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------

Facundo Batista asked that the PSF fund the &quot;Jornada Python en Santa
Fe&quot; (Argentina); further info at `http://www.pythonsantafe.com.ar/ <http://www.pythonsantafe.com.ar/>`_.

    RESOLVED, that the PSF will provide a US $500 one-time
    grant to assist in funding the Python en Santa Fe (Argentina)
    meeting Jun 9th, 2007.

Approved 6-0-0. 

S. Deibel will notify Facundo Batista about the PSF's grant
for the Jornada Python en Santa Fe (Argentina).

`6   EuroPython Sponsorship <#id8>`_
------------------------------------

Andrew Kuchling has been discussing PSF assistance with the EuroPython
organizers.  Separately, Guido van Rossum wrote to D. Goodger
suggesting that the PSF become a sponsor and backer of EuroPython.  In
email, Steve Holden proposed that the PSF sponsor up to $5000.
S. Deibel noted that a &quot;Gold&quot; sponsorship is 2000 euros, and they
don't seem to have platinum.  The Board agreed that the PSF should
sponsor beyond the Gold level.

    RESOLVED, that the PSF will provide up to US $5000 as a sponsor of
    EuroPython 2007.

Approved 6-0-0. 

D. Goodger noted that we need to formulate a policy regaring event
sponsorships.

A. Kuchling will contact the EuroPython organizers to arrange
for the PSF's sponsorship.

`7   PyCon Uno (Italy) <#id9>`_
-------------------------------

S. Deibel reported that Valentino Volonghi contacted him to ask if
they can use the logo.  We don't have a PSF logo though so he gave
permission to use the Python logo.  S. Deibel checked and reported the
logo in use (at `http://www.pycon.it <http://www.pycon.it>`_) was a variant of the Python logo,
but with wrong colors.

S. Deibel will ask PyCon Italia to correct their usage of the
Python logo.

M. von L?wis and D. Goodger both suggested they use the PyCon logo
instead.  D. Goodger noted that he'd rather see them use the PyCon
logo, perhaps with color variation.

S. Deibel asked if we should have a PSF logo, for example to show PSF
support.  D. Goodger replied that he has been meaning to make one.

D. Goodger will produce a PSF logo based on the Python logo. 

    RESOLVED, that the PSF will pay 1500 Euros for a gold sponsorship
    of PyConUno (Italy) 2007.

Approved 6-0-0. 

S. Deibel will notify Valentino Volonghi about the PSF's
sponsorship of PyCon Uno (Italy).

D. Goodger noted that a gold sponsorship allows for a banner and comes
with 3 conference passes.  He further noted that we'll need a banner
for EuroPython too, and it can stay in Europe.

D. Goodger will look into making PSF banners. 

S. Deibel will notify the PSF members about the availability
of passes to PyCon Uno (Italy).

`8   Request to Change python.org Home Page <#id10>`_
-----------------------------------------------------

Jeff Rush sent email requesting some changes to the python.org home
page.  The Board agreed that we don't need to decide; this is a matter
for the pydotorg maintainers.

S. Deibel will refer Jeff Rush to the pydotorg mailing list
for changes to python.org.

`9   Advocacy Coordinator Progress <#id11>`_
--------------------------------------------

Jeff Rush updated his accomplishments
(`http://wiki.python.org/moin/AdvocacyAccomplishments <http://wiki.python.org/moin/AdvocacyAccomplishments>`_) and to-do list
(`http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonAdvocacyCoordinator <http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonAdvocacyCoordinator>`_).  M. von L?wis
remarked &quot;the activities listed look right to me&quot;.  T. Peters noted
that the Board should not micromanage; this type of review should be
up to the supervisors (S. Deibel and S. Holden), unless the
supervisors feel it necessary to ask the full Board.

T. Peters questioned the wisdom of the Advocacy Coordinator reviewing
a textbook, which can take a lot of time: &quot;If the goal is to review
its Python content for accuracy, perhaps; if it's to review the
textbook as a whole, no way.&quot;

D. Ascher: &quot;In general, I get the impression that he ends up putting
things on his TODO list that he wants to do, not things we're likely
to think are good ideas.&quot;  T. Peters: &quot;That's my impression too.  And
that's the same thing I'd do if I were him.&quot;

`10   Budget Discussion <#id12>`_
---------------------------------

T. Peters: 

    As a business, we need a serious written budget.  Long-term goals
    live or die by whether a budget can support them.  We tend to
    bounce around based on the last thing someone complained about.
    Forcing ourselves to write a serious budget would force a serious
    debate about long-term goals.

D. Ascher noted that we don't actually spend any real money.
S. Deibel replied that the money going to the Advocacy Coordinator is
fairly substantial over a full year.  K. Kaiser concurred: &quot;it
approximates (or exceeds) our PyCon plus Sponsor income.&quot;

D. Goodger: &quot;We should be spending money.  If we spend it wisely &
well, more should come in.&quot;

D. Ascher: 

    I also think that there's a problem in that the board is saying
    we'll do what the membership wants and the membership doesn't
    really say what they want.

    The fact is the PSF has no authority on the language, which is
    what people actually care about.

D. Goodger: 

    I started a &quot;Budget & Action Plan&quot;, but it needs to be fleshed
    out.  Would anyone like to help?

(No one stepped forward.) 

S. Deibel: &quot;The real issue may be not $ but time and effort no one has
available.&quot;

`11   Adjournment <#id13>`_
---------------------------

S. Deibel adjourned the meeting at 17:59 UTC.