The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

July 14, 2008

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 14
July 2008.  Steve Holden presided at the meeting.  David Goodger
prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Status of Past Action Items <#status-of-past-action-items>`_- `3.1   Carried Forward <#carried-forward>`_  - `3.2   New from June 16 <#new-from-june-16>`_

- `4   New Servers for python.org <#new-servers-for-python-org>`_

- `5   PSF Issue Tracker & Wiki <#psf-issue-tracker-wiki>`_

- `6   PyOhio Support <#pyohio-support>`_

- `7   Nominations for PSF Community Awards <#nominations-for-psf-community-awards>`_

- `8   ZEUUX Cooperation <#zeuux-cooperation>`_

- `9   Policy on Draft Minutes <#policy-on-draft-minutes>`_

- `10   Support Request from Jornadas Regionales de Software Libre <#support-request-from-jornadas-regionales-de-software-libre>`_

- `11   Pending Sponsor Subscription to PSF-Members? <#pending-sponsor-subscription-to-psf-members>`_

- `12   Infrastructure Committee Report <#infrastructure-committee-report>`_

- `13   PyCon Report <#pycon-report>`_

- `14   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Brett Cannon, David Goodger, Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden,
Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, and James Tauber.  Also in attendance
was Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 16 June 2008 Board meeting minutes were approved by a vote of
7-0-0 (*in favor ? opposed ? abstentions*).

`3   Status of Past Action Items <#id3>`_
-----------------------------------------

(Pending action items appear like this.) 

`3.1   Carried Forward <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following are action items carried forward from the 16 June 2008
meeting, as highlighted in the minutes (Section 3, Status of Past
Action Items):

- Originally from October 2005, Section 4, Public Support Committee: D. Goodger will pursue web page and installer donation link ideas.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from June 2006, Section 6, PSF Records: The Board agreed to assemble the existing records in one place, have them scanned, and enter them into the PSF data repository. D. Goodger will coordinate this work and maintain the records.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from August 2006, Section 10: T. Peters will ask the advice of Larry Rosen regarding concerns with the contributor agreement.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from December 2006, Section 4, Jython Contributor Agreements: D. Goodger will write to the Jython contributors and ask them to sign contributor agreement forms, in combination with item 2 above (transferred from A. Kuchling).     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from March 2007, Section 18, Bylaw Change Survey: S. Holden will call for a separate discussion of changes to the bylaws [with S. Deibel's help].     S. Holden reported that he has begun discussions with Stephan Deibel, and that they plan to use the new PSF issue tracker to follow up on this.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from May 2007, Section 7, PyCon Uno (Italy): D. Goodger will look into making PSF banners.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from 10 March 2008, Section 10, Python Certification: S. Holden will rework the proposal with Van Lindberg and Tennessee Leeuwenburg as a discussion document to be posted to the members' list, as the Board considers the members' views essential.     A &quot;certification&quot; mailing list was set up, a draft of the proposal is on the private PSF wiki, and there has been some discussion.     Status: **done**.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 5, Treasurer's Report: S. Holden will assist K. Kaiser with accounts receivable reminders.     Prior to the meeting K. Kaiser sent a status report to the Board mailing list.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 7, PyCon Asset Record-Keeping: D. Goodger will update the assets file in PSF CVS with the details of the laptops and VGA2USB boxes purchased for PyCon 2008.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 8, PSF Awards Program: S. Holden will have PSF Community Award certificates designed.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 12, Sponsor Membership Issues: S. Holden will contact ILM to request a new sponsor membership application.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 12, Sponsor Membership Issues: D. Goodger will update the member information in members.xls (sponsors & nominated members) & sponsor-addrs.txt, in PSF CVS.     Status: in progress.

- Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 12, Sponsor Membership Issues: S. Holden will contact OSAF and inquire about their outstanding 2007 PSF sponsor invoice.     Status: carried forward.

- Originally from 12 May 2008, Section 12, Choice of PSF Logo: D. Goodger will prepare logos for the PSF, based on the Python logo graphic with the text &quot;Python Software Foundation&quot;.     Status: carried forward.

`3.2   New from June 16 <#id5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These action items originated at the 16 June 2008 Board meeting on IRC. 

- Section 4, Sponsor Member Application: PropertySold.ca: Once sponsor dues have been received, D. Goodger will list PropertySold.ca as a pending sponsor member on the web site.     The accounts receivable report showed that sponsor dues have been received.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 5, PSF Staffing Plan: D. Goodger will send the staffing plan to the members for discussion.     Email sent 2008-06-16.      Status: **done**.

- Section 6.1, Treasurer's Report: K. Kaiser will submit an expanded report to psf-members.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.2, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding the PyCon transaction analysis.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.3, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will ensure that documentation for unpaid PyCon tutorials is found and provided.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.4, Treasurer's Report: 4. D. Goodger will send all remaining PyCon checks to K. Kaiser for deposit.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.5, Treasurer's Report: D. Godoger will provide K. Kaiser with PyCon financial aid documentation.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.6, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will provide K. Kaiser with PyCon expense and cash reports.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.7, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding unpaid PyCon sponsorships.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 6.8, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding unpaid PyCon registrations.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 7, PyOhio Support: S. Holden will send email to Catherine Devlin of PyOhio saying we'd be open to proposals.     Status: **done**.

- Section 8, SciPy Support: S. Holden will write to Travis Vaught about the PSF's sponsorship of SciPy 2008.  Holden will inquire about the responsible organization, request a W-9 form, and note that the administration of the funding is up to SciPy.     Status: **done**.

- Section 9, EuroPython Support: S. Holden will ask EuroPython to send an invoice for a 2008 silver sponsorship.     Status: **done**.

- Section 10, Formalizing the Trademarks Committee: J. Tauber and D. Goodger will formulate a resolution for the formation of a Trademarks Committee.     Status: carried forward.

- Section 11, PSF Awards Program: Nominations?: D. Goodger will ask the members for nominations for the PSF Awards Program.     Email sent 2008-07-09.      Status: **done**.

`4   New Servers for python.org <#id6>`_
----------------------------------------

S. Holden asked the status of the new servers approved in June.
M. von L?wis replied that they are ordered, and an invoice has been
received.  K. Kaiser reported that funds were wired last week.

`5   PSF Issue Tracker & Wiki <#id7>`_
------------------------------------------

M. von L?wis noted that both a wiki and an issue tracker have been set
up.  S. Holden asked everyone to create an account on the wiki, for it
to be useful as a communication mechanism.

`6   PyOhio Support <#id8>`_
----------------------------

The PyOhio organizers have requested funds for a pizza lunch. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF provides $300 to PyOhio.

Approved 7-0-0.

`7   Nominations for PSF Community Awards <#id9>`_
--------------------------------------------------

Two nominations were received: 

    **RESOLVED**, that Georg Brandl is awarded a PSF Community Award.

Approved 7-0-0. 

    **RESOLVED**, that Brett Cannon is awarded a PSF Community Award.

Approved 6-0-1. 

The award details will follow
`http://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-awards/ <http://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-awards/>`_.

D. Goodger suggested that since the Directors decide these awards,
current Directors should be declared ineligible in future.
R. Hettinger disagreed, noting that abstaining from the vote is
sufficient.  S. Holden recommended that nominations for Directors not
originate from the Board.  The consensus was not to declare Directors
ineligible.

`8   ZEUUX Cooperation <#id10>`_
--------------------------------

The Board received a request from Bill Xu, founder of the ZEUUX Free
Software Community in Beijing, China
(`http://www.zeuux.org/about/about.html <http://www.zeuux.org/about/about.html>`_).  Xu requested that the PSF
become a ZEUXX partner.  The meaning of &quot;partner&quot; was discussed.

    **RESOLVED**, that ZEUUX be listed as a partner organisation on
    python.org, and that they be given permission to list the PSF as
    their partner.

Approved 4-2-1. 

- S. Holden will reply to Bill Xu of ZEUUX regarding PSF cooperation.

- S. Holden will include an affiliation program in the bylaws revision discussion.

- M. von L?wis will ask the python.org maintainers to add a page (&quot;informally affiliated&quot; or equivalent), and will suggest the wording.

`9   Policy on Draft Minutes <#id11>`_
--------------------------------------

The Board agreed with R. Hettinger's recommendation: initially send
the draft minutes to the Board by email, allow 7 days for revisions,
then make them public (publish to python.org and announce to
psf-members), with final approval at the next Board meeting.

`10   Support Request from Jornadas Regionales de Software Libre <#id12>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facundo Batista requested that the PSF sponsor 8th Jornadas Regionales
de Software Libre in Argentina, in order to provide funding for
R. Hettinger to give a keynote speech there.  R. Hettinger recused
himself from the discussion.

D. Goodger expressed discomfort with the amount, and the approach of
the request.  The PSF sponsored last year's &quot;Python en Santa Fe&quot;
meeting with $500.  Given the size of the conference (1500+ expected),
they ought to be able to get commercial sponsors.

S. Holden expressed reservations funding a Director's travel, but
noted that Hettinger's popularity as a speaker was likely the cause.
`http://jornadas.cafelug.org.ar/8/en/home.php <http://jornadas.cafelug.org.ar/8/en/home.php>`_ lists several significant
sponsors.

T. Peters noted, &quot;But it's not just a Python conference -- sounds like
it's more like OSCON.  ... [It] doesn't sound like they're asking for
general support, they're asking specifically to fund travel for a
speaker.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;In other words, the funds will be used to raise Python's
visibility within the overall conference.&quot;

K. Kaiser suggested that the PSF could reimburse a Director's travel
directly if it supports the PSF.

    **RESOLVED**, that Raymond Hettinger be reimbursed for travel
    expenses to the Jornadas Regionals de Software Libres 2008, up to
    $3000.

Approved 3-1-3. 

S. Holden will inform Facundo Batista of the PSF's travel
funding for the Jornadas Regionales de Software Libre.

`11   Pending Sponsor Subscription to PSF-Members? <#id13>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

D. Goodger noted that a pending sponsor member subscribed to the
PSF-members mailing list (their request is being held for moderation),
and asked if pending sponsor members should be permitted to subscribe.
The Board consensus was to ask the members.

D. Goodger will ask the PSF members whether pending sponsor
members should be permitted to subscribe to the psf-members mailing
list.

`12   Infrastructure Committee Report <#id14>`_
-----------------------------------------------

B. Cannon reported that M. von L?wis set up issue trackers for the PSF
and for the security team.

`13   PyCon Report <#id15>`_
----------------------------

D. Goodger reported that there are some replies to the 2010 RFPs, but
they haven't been analyzed yet.  The planned decision deadline is 1
August; the actualy decision may not meet the deadline but should be
made in a timely fashion.

R. Hettinger asked if there is a viable non-staff option on the table
(e.g. outsource to conference specialists).  D. Goodger replied that
there is not.

For 2009, there are no other outstanding issues. 

D. Goodger noted that he may need help finding the next chairperson
for PyCon.

`14   Adjournment <#id16>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:07 UTC.