The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Special Meeting of the Board of Directors 

March 27, 2009

A special meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held at PyCon 2009 in Rosemont/Chicago at 18:30 CDT
(23:30 UTC), 27 March 2009.  David Goodger prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Election of Officers <#election-of-officers>`_

- `3   Committees <#committees>`_

- `4   New Members <#new-members>`_

- `5   PSF Community Awards <#psf-community-awards>`_

- `6   Discussion <#discussion>`_

- `7   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Brett Cannon, David Goodger, Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden,
Andrew Kuchling, Martin von L?wis, David Mertz, Jeff Rush, and James
Tauber.  Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer), Van Lindberg
(Counsel), and Pat Campbell (Administrator).

`2   Election of Officers <#id2>`_
----------------------------------

The following Officers were elected by acclamation: 

- **President**: Guido van Rossum

- **Chairman**: Steve Holden

- **Executive Vice President**: Brett Cannon

- **Secretary**: David Goodger

- **Treasurer**: Kurt Kaiser

- **Assistant Treasurer**: Raymond Hettinger

`3   Committees <#id3>`_
------------------------

The charters of the currently active committees, the Infrastructure
Committee (IC) and the Trademarks Committee (TMC), were renewed.

`4   New Members <#id4>`_
-------------------------

[51] D. Goodger and P. Campbell will inform the new members
of their election, invite them to join the psf-members list, and will
update the membership records.

`5   PSF Community Awards <#id5>`_
----------------------------------

The Board agreed to present Mary Rush and Carl Karsten with PSF
Community Awards, to be announced during a plenary session at PyCon.

Two other nominations were noted for future awards. 

[52] P. Campbell will add &quot;PSF Community Award nominations&quot;
to the Board agenda quarterly.

`6   Discussion <#id6>`_
------------------------

- D. Goodger noted that the Board should start thinking about nominations for the Frank Willison Award (awarded by O'Reilly annually at OSCON).

- The possibility of PSF meetings at EuroPython should be explored.

- The PSF's response to a case of abuse of the Python trademarks was discussed.

- R. Hettinger asked that PyCon costs be discussed in the near future.

`7   Adjournment <#id7>`_
-------------------------

The meeting adjourned at 19:00 CDT.