The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

March 12, 2009

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:02 UTC, 12
March 2009.  Steve Holden presided at the meeting.  David Goodger
prepared these minutes.

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Status of Past Action Items <#status-of-past-action-items>`_- `4.1   Carried Forward <#carried-forward>`_  - `4.2   New On 9 February <#new-on-9-february>`_  - `4.3   New Between Meetings <#new-between-meetings>`_

- `5   Internet Domain Management <#internet-domain-management>`_

- `6   Members' Meeting <#members-meeting>`_

- `7   Board Candidates <#board-candidates>`_

- `8   Account Signature Authority <#account-signature-authority>`_

- `9   PSF Coordinator for 2009 Google Summer of Code <#psf-coordinator-for-2009-google-summer-of-code>`_

- `10   PyCon Report <#pycon-report>`_

- `11   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id2>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Brett Cannon, David Goodger, Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden,
Martin von L?wis, Tim Peters, and Stephan Deibel (arrived at 16:14).
Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer) and Pat Campbell
(Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id3>`_
--------------------------------------

The January and February 2009 Board meeting minutes were not ready.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id4>`_
------------------------------------------

No votes were taken since the 9 February 2009 Board meeting.

`4   Status of Past Action Items <#id5>`_
-----------------------------------------

(Pending action items appear like this.) 

Action items are tracked in `the private PSF wiki <http://wiki.python.org/psf/Action_Items>`_ and their status is
recorded in the regular minutes.  The numbers in square brackets (like
&quot;[0]&quot;) refer to the action item ID on the wiki.

`4.1   Carried Forward <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following are action items carried forward from the 9 February
2009 meeting, as highlighted in the minutes (Section 4, Status of Past
Action Items).  Numbers in [brackets] represent the item ID in the PSF
private wiki.

- [11] Originally from June 2006, Section 6, PSF Records: **MISSING**      Copies received by Pat Campbell 2009-03-10.      Status: in progress.

- [30] Originally from August 2006, Section 10: T. Peters will ask the advice of Larry Rosen regarding concerns with the contributor agreement.     Status: carried forward.

- [13] Originally from December 2006, Section 4, Jython Contributor Agreements: D. Goodger will write to the Jython contributors and ask them to sign contributor agreement forms, in combination with item 1 [11] above (transferred from A. Kuchling).     Status: carried forward.

- [29] Originally from March 2007, Section 18, Bylaw Change Survey: S. Holden will call for a separate discussion of changes to the bylaws [with S. Deibel's help].  Include an affiliation program [ref. July 2008 section 8].     Ready for member vote after incorporation of attorney comments.      Status: in progress.

- [23] Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 5, Treasurer's Report: S. Holden will assist K. Kaiser with accounts receivable reminders.     Status: in progress.

- [15] Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 7, PyCon Asset Record-Keeping: D. Goodger will update the assets file in PSF CVS with the details of the laptops and VGA2USB boxes purchased for PyCon 2008.     Status: in progress.

- [16] Originally from 14 April 2008, Section 12, Sponsor Membership Issues: D. Goodger will update the member information in members.xls (sponsors & nominated members) & sponsor-addrs.txt, in PSF CVS.     Status: carried forward.

- [22] Originally from 16 June 2008, Section 6.1, Treasurer's Report: K. Kaiser will submit an expanded report to psf-members.     Status: carried forward.

- [4] Originally from 16 June 2008, Section 6.2, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding the PyCon transaction analysis.     Status: carried forward.

- [5] Originally from 16 June 2008, Section 6.3, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will ensure that documentation for unpaid PyCon tutorials is found and provided.     Status: carried forward.

- [9] Originally from 16 June 2008, Section 6.7, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding unpaid PyCon sponsorships.     Status: carried forward.

- [10] Originally from 16 June 2008, Section 6.8, Treasurer's Report: D. Goodger will follow up regarding unpaid PyCon registrations.     Status: carried forward.

- [25] Originally from 11 August 2008, Section 6.2, PyCon UK Sponsorship: R. Hettinger will propose a blanket policy for sponsorships, instead of one-off requests.     Status: carried forward.

- [17] Originally from 8 September 2008, Section 7, PSF Logo: D. Goodger will produce final layouts for a PSF logo.     Status: carried forward.

- [34] Originally from 8 December 2008, Section 5, Role of Administrator: D. Goodger and P. Campbell will verify and update the member contact information.     Status: carried forward.

- [38] Originally from 12 January 2009, Section 7.2, Trademarks Committee (TMC): J. Tauber will work with the Trademarks Committee on establishing voting procedures.     Status: carried forward.

- [39] Originally from 12 January 2009, Section 7.3, Trademarks Committee (TMC): J. Tauber will document the Trademarks Committee procedure as discussed at the Board meeting.     Status: carried forward.

- [40] Originally from 12 January 2009, Section 7.4, Trademarks Committee (TMC): J. Tauber will work with counsel on a proposal to register Python trademarks.     Status: carried forward.

- [41] Originally from 12 January 2009, Section 9, Members' Meeting: D. Goodger will issue a call for membership and Board nominations.     Sent to the psf-members mailing list on 2009-02-24.      Status: **done**.

- [42] Originally from 12 January 2009, Section 10, Legal Issues: K. Kaiser will look into acquiring errors and omissions insurance for the Board of Directors.     Status: carried forward.

`4.2   New On 9 February <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These action items originated at the 9 February 2009 Board meeting on
IRC.

- [43] Section 9, Internet Domain Management: S. Holden will frame a motion regarding the management of the PSF's Internet domains.     See `Internet Domain Management <#internet-domain-management>`_ below.      Status: carried forward.

- [44] Section 12, PSF Community Awards: D. Goodger will ask the members for nominations for the PSF Community Awards.     S. Holden sent a call for nominations to the PSF Board mailing list on 2009-03-04.     Status: carried forward.

`4.3   New Between Meetings <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No action items were added since the last Board meeting on
9 February.

`5   Internet Domain Management <#id9>`_
----------------------------------------

S. Holden: 

    With the recent offer of python.cn I realized that we need a
    formal set of actions to manage these.  ... we need to be sure
    that renewals will occur on time...

    It would also help to collect all the PSF's domains under a single
    registrar.

M. von L?wis: &quot;I don't think we need a policy, we need someone in
charge.&quot;

K. Kaiser noted that we record all domain information in &quot;domains.txt&quot;
in PSF CVS, with the user/passwords in &quot;accts_other.enc&quot;.  &quot;I think
multiple registrars is OK, but we should pick one for new
registrations.&quot;

M. von L?wis: 

    I don't think we need a single registrar. Isn't domains.txt fine
    as-is?

    Currently, it seems that Kurt is managing most of them. If he is
    willing to continue to do so, I have trust. If he would rather
    hand this over, I would suggest Sean Reifschneider.

K. Kaiser: &quot;Registrar email should continue to go to `psf@python.org <mailto:psf%40python.org>`_,
and we should try to decouple from specific people.  Pseudousers, e.g.
psf, should be set up if we are going to change things.&quot;

[46] S. Holden will ask Sean Reifschneider about domain
management services.

`6   Members' Meeting <#id10>`_
-------------------------------

D. Goodger reported that the `agenda <http://www.python.org/psf/records/members/2009-03-27/agenda/>`_ for the members' meeting is up,
ready to be fixed.  7 directors are running, so one slot is open.
There are over 20 new member nominations.  We currently have 86
nominated members and 22 sponsor members.

The `Nominations 2009 page on the PSF private wiki <http://wiki.python.org/psf/Nominations_2009>`_ will be used for
the descriptions & recommendations of nominees, linked from the
`agenda <http://www.python.org/psf/records/members/2009-03-27/agenda/>`_.

The preparations were discussed.  D. Goodger: &quot;We'll need ballots, and
collating proxy forms. Pat can help with that on-site.&quot;  S. Holden and
D. Goodger noted that it was too late to send out individual notices
by postal mail.

D. Goodger noted that in May 2008 there was a trademarks discussion on
PSF-members, where M. von L?wis proposed that the PSF give up control
over the Python logo entirely.  The Board agreed to add it to the
agenda.

- [47] M. von L?wis will restart the discussion on giving up control of the Python logo, and formulate a summary and a resolution for the agenda.

- [48] K. Kaiser will prepare a 2008 financial report (P&L and balance sheet) in advance of the members' meeting.

`7   Board Candidates <#id11>`_
-------------------------------

The possibility of expanding the number of seats on the Board of
Directors was discussed.  D. Goodger noted that this would need a
resolution.

There are currently 7 candidates for 8 Board slots.  S. Holden: &quot;Do we
need to encourage more Board nominations?  At least by announcing
there's an available place?&quot;

S. Holden suggested an announcement on the PSF blog.  D. Goodger: &quot;A
public blog post didn't work well last time.  Non-members ran, members
didn't elect them.&quot;

[49] S. Holden will send email to the members list regarding
Board nominations.

`8   Account Signature Authority <#id12>`_
------------------------------------------

D. Goodger: &quot;We only require one signature per check, right?  So extra
signatories are just bus/continuity insurance.&quot;  K. Kaiser confirmed.

    **RESOLVED**, that Kurt B. Kaiser, Tim Peters and Steve Holden be
    authorized signatories to all company accounts, and that the
    Treasurer complete all necessary formalities to ensure this.

Approved, 7-0-0. 

[50] K. Kaiser will obtain signature cards from the PSF's
bank and coordinate their signing.

`9   PSF Coordinator for 2009 Google Summer of Code <#id13>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------

M. von L?wis noted that we have to choose a PSF coordinator for GSoC
immediately.  After some discussion, the Board agreed to appoint Arc
Riley as coordinator, with Titus Brown and James Tauber as backups.

`10   PyCon Report <#id14>`_
----------------------------

D. Goodger noted that current PyCon attendance figures are short of
last year, but may pick up:

716 Completed Registrations 

103 Pending Registrations 

819 Total Paid and Pending Registrations

PyCon faces a potential loss in the $150,000 range, much due to low
hotel reservations.  Room reservations are under our obligation by
about 700 room-nights at last count, at a cost of approximately $100
per room-night.

The Board discussed an appeal for help (a push for more attendance, or
donations), but decided not to prematurely spread news of a potential
financial loss (which may be perceived as an announcement of failure),
but wait until after the conference.  S. Holden: &quot;I believe the
correct approach is to see how the whole thing pans out, then adjust
our plans once we know the outcome.&quot;

D. Goodger: &quot;By all standards except [comparing attendance to] last
year, it's a huge success.  And I think it will be better than last
year: more room, better service, etc.&quot;

M. von L?wis: &quot;If we can encourage people to attend, we should do
that - but not because we need the money, but because we want to share
the great programme.&quot;

`11   Adjournment <#id15>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:01 UTC.