The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

June 21, 2010

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:03 UTC, 21
June 2010. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Funding for Redevelopment of PyCon Website <#funding-for-redevelopment-of-pycon-website>`_

- `5   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `6   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_

- `7   Fund PyCon India 2010 <#fund-pycon-india-2010>`_

- `8   Fund EuroPython 2010 <#fund-europython-2010>`_

- `9   PSF New Membership Class as Honorary Associate Member (HAM)- Resolution Only <#psf-new-membership-class-as-honorary-associate-member-ham-resolution-only>`_

- `10   Fund Project to Port pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x <#fund-project-to-port-pyopenssl-to-python-3-x>`_

- `11   Fiscal Sponsorship of Third-Party Projects <#fiscal-sponsorship-of-third-party-projects>`_

- `12   Fund Python Core Development Tasks <#fund-python-core-development-tasks>`_

- `13   Reimburse Expenses for PSF Chairman to Attend EuroPython <#reimburse-expenses-for-psf-chairman-to-attend-europython>`_

- `14   Other Business <#other-business>`_- `14.1   Move Monthly Board Meetings to Third Monday <#move-monthly-board-meetings-to-third-monday>`_

- `15   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Doug Napoleone, Jesse
Noller, Allison Randal, Greg Stein [left meeting at 17:04], James
Tauber, Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser
(Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 10 May 2010 Board meeting minutes will be voted on after online
posting.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There was one vote taken since the last Board meeting on 10 May 2010.

`4   Funding for Redevelopment of PyCon Website <#id4>`_
--------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the Board approves the use of up to $15,000 USD
    of the PyCon 2010 profits to be used by the PyCon Chair (Van Lindberg)
    to fund the rebuilding of the PyCon website and codebase, with the
    approval to use an additional $5000 USD for continued support and bug
    fixing of the new site for the PyCon 2011 season.

Approved, 9-1-3

`5   Treasurer Report <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K. Kaiser
prior to the Board meeting. There were no changes in the PSF's financial
position since the last Treasurer's Report a month ago.

`6   Progress Report <#id6>`_
-----------------------------

The Treasurer along with board members also thanked Van Lindberg and
conference volunteers for their hard work. It was reported that PyCon
2010 made a 72K profit and that all of the bills generated from the
conference have been paid.

Also, board members and officers will be holding a budget planning meeting
by telephone-conference in July 2010 to plan and review the 2011 PSF budget.

`7   Fund PyCon India 2010 <#id7>`_
-----------------------------------

The board discussed funding of PyCon India 2010 and agreed to provide a USD 1,000
grant to conference organizers.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 1,000 grant to the organizers of the
    PyCon India 2010 conference to be held September 2010, to fund the air travel
    of one (1) foreign delegate from the U.S. or Europe to India.

Approved, 7-0-1.

`8   Fund EuroPython 2010 <#id8>`_
----------------------------------

Motion from M.A. Lemburg: 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 2,000 grant to the organizers
    of the EuroPython 2010 conference to be held July 2010, to fund sprint
    costs and travel expenses for selected speakers who could not otherwise
    attend.

Approved, 7-0-1.

`9   PSF New Membership Class as Honorary Associate Member (HAM)- Resolution Only <#id9>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Motion from M.A. Lemburg: 

    **RESOLVED**, that the Board of Directors implement the creation
    of a new membership class, called &quot;honorary associate members&quot;,
    as requested and approved by the members at the 2010 first
    annual PSF members meeting, as follows:

    There are now four classes of members of the corporation, denoted as
    nominated members, sponsor members, honorary associate members and
    emeritus members. References in the bylaws to a &quot;member&quot; or to the
    &quot;members&quot; of the corporation shall not include any honorary associate
    member, emeritus member or sponsor member unless explicitly provided
    otherwise.

    Honorary associate members have no voting rights and are not included
    in the membership count for purposes of establishing a quorum.

    Honorary associate membership shall be granted, on a yearly basis, in
    consideration of financial donation to the PSF, but subject to
    revocation by the Board of Directors.

    Annual donations sufficient for honorary associate membership shall
    initially be set at US$99, and may be revised by the Board of
    Directors from time to time.

    Honorary associate members may withdraw from membership in the
    corporation at any time upon ten (10) days' written, signed notice
    delivered to an officer of the corporation.

    The Board or Directors may, at its discretion, decide to provide
    incidental benefits to honorary associate members, such as
    subscription to a newsletter, Python-branded email addresses, or
    printed promotion material such as badges, stickers, or garments.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`10   Fund Project to Port pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x <#id10>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 3,000 grant to Jean-Paul Calderone
    for a fully functional port of pyOpenSSL to Python 3.x with an API as
    similar to the 2.x API as possible.

This discussion was deferred to email to be voted on at the next board
meeting.

`11   Fiscal Sponsorship of Third-Party Projects <#id11>`_
----------------------------------------------------------

Motion from S. Holden: 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF expend up to USD 5,000 on attorney's
    fees to obtain instructions on how to properly operate a fiscal
    sponsorship scheme allowing it to support third-party projects
    compatible with the PSF's mission and accept donations on their
    behalf (possibly retaining a small portion of the funds to cover
    administration expenses).

This discussion was deferred to email to be voted on at the next board
meeting.

`12   Fund Python Core Development Tasks <#id12>`_
--------------------------------------------------

The board discussed a proposal by Brett Cannon to work on Python core
development tasks full-time for a period of two months: November &
December 2010. The proposal included a grant request of USD 4,500.

This discussion was deferred to email to be voted on at the next board
meeting.

`13   Reimburse Expenses for PSF Chairman to Attend EuroPython <#id13>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF reimburse expenses not to exceed USD 1,500
    to allow the Chairman to attend EuroPython which is holding the first
    Members' Meeting outside the United States.

Approved, 7-0-1.

`14   Other Business <#id14>`_
------------------------------

`14.1   Move Monthly Board Meetings to Third Monday <#id15>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Board members agreed to move their monthly board meeting from the second (2nd)
Monday of each month to the third (3rd) Monday of each month. The start date
for this change will begin in July 2010.

`15   Adjournment <#id16>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:06 UTC.