The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

April 12, 2010

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 12
April 2010.  Steve Holden presided at the meeting.  Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_

- `6   Election of Board Officers <#election-of-board-officers>`_

- `7   Appointment of Infrastructure Committee Chairman <#appointment-of-infrastructure-committee-chairman>`_

- `8   Appointment of Trademarks Committee Chairman <#appointment-of-trademarks-committee-chairman>`_

- `9   Funding of PyCon Italy 2010 <#funding-of-pycon-italy-2010>`_

- `10   Funding of Kiwi PyCon 2010 <#funding-of-kiwi-pycon-2010>`_

- `11   Contributor Agreements - Methods to Pursue Coverage <#contributor-agreements-methods-to-pursue-coverage>`_

- `12   PSF Community Service Award Nominations for 2010 - 2nd Quarter <#psf-community-service-award-nominations-for-2010-2nd-quarter>`_

- `13   PSF Members Vote Counting Requirement Waived <#psf-members-vote-counting-requirement-waived>`_

- `14   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `15   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, David Mertz
[joined meeting at 16:09], Doug Napoleone, Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison
Randal, and Jeff Rush, Greg Stein, James Tauber, Martin v. L?wis [left meeting
at 16:58], Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer),
and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 8 February 2010 and 8 March 2010 Board meeting minutes were approved
during this month's meeting session.

8 February 2010: Approved, 10-0-2
8 March 2010: Approved, 9-0-3

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting on 08 March 2010.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

A preliminary version of the monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to
Board members by K. Kaiser prior to the Board meeting.

`5   Progress Report <#id5>`_
-----------------------------

To add to K. Kaiser's monthly financial report of PyCon 2010, V. Lindberg
provided the board with an additional financial update shortly after the
board meeting had adjourned.

`6   Election of Board Officers <#id6>`_
----------------------------------------

The following Officers were elected: 

- **President**: Guido van Rossum

- **Chairman**: Steve Holden

- **Secretary**: Pat Campbell

- **Treasurer**: Kurt Kaiser

- **PyCon Chairman**: Van Lindberg

Further discussion to elect more officers and create new officer
positions such as Membership Communications Officer, Voting Officer,
etc. was deferred to email and will continue at next month's board
meeting.

`7   Appointment of Infrastructure Committee Chairman <#id7>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------

R. Hettinger: &quot;Sean [Reifschneider] is expected to abstain from votes
about his own company.&quot;

S. Holden: &quot;We do need to discuss the conflict of interest situation with
him, but I agree with T. Peters' suggestion that we trust him to recuse
himself from decisions where tummy.com might profit.&quot;

    **RESOLVED**, that Sean Reifschneider be appointed chairman of the
    Infrastructure Committee.

Approved, 13-0-0.

`8   Appointment of Trademarks Committee Chairman <#id8>`_
----------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that David Mertz be appointed chairman of the Trademarks
    Committee.

Approved, 11-0-1

`9   Funding of PyCon Italy 2010 <#id9>`_
-----------------------------------------

The board discussed funding of PyCon Italy and agreed to provide
a grant to conference organizers. However, S. Holden reminded board
members of the limited funding available in the 2010 PSF budget for
conference funding.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF grant US$4,000 to PyCon Italy 2010.

Approved, 10-0-3.

`10   Funding of Kiwi PyCon 2010 <#id10>`_
------------------------------------------

The board discussed funding of Kiwi PyCon 2010. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF sponsor Kiwi PyCon 2010 at the
    &quot;Silver&quot; rate of NZ$1,000.

Approved, 8-0-4.

`11   Contributor Agreements - Methods to Pursue Coverage <#id11>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------

M.A Lemburg: &quot;Who will be continuing Andrew [Kuchling's] effort?&quot; 

- Hettinger: &quot;I am continuing the effort.&quot;

- Holden: &quot;...It is important work.&quot;

This discussion was deferred to email in order for members to
pursue the remaining coverage of the Python code base which is
nearly at 100%.

`12   PSF Community Service Award Nominations for 2010 - 2nd Quarter <#id12>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board decided that the award candidate pool should first be broaden to
include more candidates then nominations for the award would resume. Therefore,
the discussion was deferred to email.

`13   PSF Members Vote Counting Requirement Waived <#id13>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

Motion from Marc-Andre Lemburg: 

    **RESOLVED**, that the new SECTION 4.10 clause vote counting scheme becomes
    effective today, i.e. failure to vote in the April 3, 2010 members election
    does not count toward the missed votes count.

Approved, 11-0-0

`14   Other Business <#id14>`_
------------------------------

The board briefly discussed payment to D. Goodger for expenses he incurred over
time. This discussion was deferred to email.

`15   Adjournment <#id15>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:30 UTC.