The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

August 16, 2010

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:09 UTC, 16
August 2010. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Funding of PyTexas 2010 <#funding-of-pytexas-2010>`_

- `5   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `6   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_

- `7   Fund PyCon PL 2010 <#fund-pycon-pl-2010>`_

- `8   Employee Healthcare <#employee-healthcare>`_

- `9   New Sponsor Membership Application <#new-sponsor-membership-application>`_

- `10   Fund Static PyPI Mirror on Amazon Cloudfront <#fund-static-pypi-mirror-on-amazon-cloudfront>`_

- `11   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `12   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, David Mertz, Doug Napoleone,
Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Jeff Rush, Greg Stein, James Tauber, Also in
attendance were Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary &
Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 26 July 2010 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 8-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There was one vote taken since the last Board meeting on 26 July 2010.

`4   Funding of PyTexas 2010 <#id4>`_
-------------------------------------

The original Motion from J. Rush was amended: 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF support PyTexas 2010 with a grant of $750.

Approved, 12-0-1.

`5   Treasurer Report <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K. Kaiser
prior to the Board meeting. There were only a few changes in the PSF's
financial position since the last Treasurer's Report a month ago.

`6   Progress Report <#id6>`_
-----------------------------

D. Napoleone will provide an email report to the board on the new PyCon
software.

The board also discussed and recommended that all reports (committee
reports, project reports, etc.) be submitted to the board mailing list
at least one week before the monthly board meeting.

`7   Fund PyCon PL 2010 <#id7>`_
--------------------------------

The board discussed funding of PyCon PL 2010 and agreed to provide a USD
750 grant to conference organizers to aid with conference needs.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a USD 750 grant to the organizers of
    the    PyCon PL 2010 conference.

Approved, 8-0-1.

`8   Employee Healthcare <#id8>`_
---------------------------------

The original Motion from S. Holden was amended: 

    **RESOLVED**, that subject to the President's approval the PSF will
    increase    the administrator's reimbursement by USD 400 per month.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`9   New Sponsor Membership Application <#id9>`_
------------------------------------------------

The board recommended Werbeagentur Berlin - Eventelligence
ltd. as a new pending sponsor member of the PSF. The new
member recommendation will be voted on at the next members'
meeting.

    **RESOLVED**, that the board recommends Werbeagentur Berlin
    - Eventelligence ltd. as a pending sponsor member.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`10   Fund Static PyPI Mirror on Amazon Cloudfront <#id10>`_
------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF will direct an initial $500 towards exploring
    the feasability of a static PyPI (`http://pypi.python.org/ <http://pypi.python.org/>`_) mirror on a
    cloud delivery network (CDN), setup as outlined in the proposal
    `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2010-August/013056.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2010-August/013056.html>`_.
    Anticipated ongoing costs will be $1944/year, subject to approval in
    subsequent Board motions.

Approved, 9-0-0.

`11   Other Business <#id11>`_
------------------------------

No other business reported on at this board meeting.

`12   Adjournment <#id12>`_
---------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 17:02 UTC.