The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

September 20, 2010 

Draft

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 20
September 2010. Steve Holden presided at the meeting. Pat Campbell
prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ? opposed ?
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Report <#progress-report>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Core Development Tasks <#core-development-tasks>`_  - `5.3   HAM WebPages/Links <#ham-webpages-links>`_  - `5.4   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.5   PyCon US Website <#pycon-us-website>`_  - `5.6   pyOpenSSL Status <#pyopenssl-status>`_  - `5.7   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_  - `5.8   Trac Hosting <#trac-hosting>`_  - `5.9   Trademarks Committee <#trademarks-committee>`_

- `6   PyCon US 2011 Budget <#pycon-us-2011-budget>`_

- `7   New Sponsor Membership Application <#new-sponsor-membership-application>`_

- `8   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `9   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Raymond Hettinger, Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemburg, David
Mertz, Doug Napoleone [arrived at 16:18], Jesse Noller, Tim Peters,
Greg Stein, and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were Kurt Kaiser
(Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 16 August 2010 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 7-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There were no votes taken since the last Board meeting held on 16
August 2010.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id4>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K. Kaiser
prior to the Board meeting. There were no major changes in the PSF's
financial position since the last Treasurer's Report a month ago.

`5   Progress Report <#id5>`_
-----------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting:

`5.1   Communication Status <#id6>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, is continuing his efforts to
recruit and find volunteers to help write for the blog found at
`http://pyfound.blogspot.com/ <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/>`_.

`5.2   Core Development Tasks <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

B. Cannon, Core Development Tasks Project, will begin working
on this 2-month project in January 2011.

`5.3   HAM WebPages/Links <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, currently working on providing new web pages & links to the
official Python web site regarding the new Honorary Associate
Membership to provide the webpage reader with some insights into how
to go about gaining their HAM membership into the PSF organization.

`5.4   Marketing Material <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A. Lemburg, Marketing Material Project, is meeting with contacts,
working on writing a proposal for board consideration...

`5.5   PyCon US Website <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Napoleone, PyCon US Website Project, will be launching the new
website to the public. &quot;Working with committee heads and Eldarion
to finalize proposal system for Talks, Tutorials, and Posters.&quot;

`5.6   pyOpenSSL Status <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J.P. Calderone, pyOpenSSL Project, has been working to improve the
coverage provided by pyOpenSSl's test suite.

`5.7   Sprint Committee <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, is looking to revitalize the
sprints volunteer mailing list.

`5.8   Trac Hosting <#id13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S. Reifschneider, Trac Hosting Project, is currently coordinating the
installation of an issue tracking tool to be utilized by the PSF to
help organize the day-to-day PSF administrative activities.

`5.9   Trademarks Committee <#id14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Mertz, Trademarks Committee Chair, A few words from the TMC chair:
&quot;In general summary, the Trademarks Committee has continued to receive
requests for usage of the Python wordmark and/or logo.  Many of these
are originally sent to the Board, and I forward them to the committee
as needed.&quot;

The board members agreed to also provide PSF members with copies of
the board reports per month.

`6   PyCon US 2011 Budget <#id15>`_
-----------------------------------

The board discussed and approved the proposed budget for PyCon 2011. 

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF approve the proposed PyCon 2011 budget
    presented by Van Lindberg.

Approved, 8-0-2.

`7   New Sponsor Membership Application <#id16>`_
-------------------------------------------------

The board recommended Zimbio Inc. as a new pending sponsor member of
the PSF. The new sponsor member recommendation will be voted on at
the next members' election.

    **RESOLVED**, that the board recommends Zimbio Inc. as a pending
    sponsor member.

Approved, 8-0-0.

`8   Other Business <#id17>`_
-----------------------------

The board briefly discussed and is considering modifying the members
election calendar time-slot from once or twice a year to holding
quarterly member elections.

`9   Adjournment <#id18>`_
--------------------------

S. Holden adjourned the meeting at 16:57 UTC.