The Python Software Foundation 

Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors 

August 15, 2011

A regular meeting of the Python Software Foundation (&quot;PSF&quot;) Board of
Directors was held over Internet Relay Chat beginning at 16:00 UTC, 15
August 2011. In Steve Holden's absence, David Mertz presided at the
meeting. Pat Campbell prepared the minutes.

All votes are reported in the form &quot;*Y-N-A*&quot; (*in favor ??? opposed ???
abstentions*; e.g. &quot;5-1-2&quot; means &quot;5 in favor, 1 opposed, and 2
abstentions&quot;).

Contents 

- `1   Attendance <#attendance>`_

- `2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#minutes-of-past-meetings>`_

- `3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#votes-taken-between-meetings>`_- `3.1   Outreach & Education Committee's Authority to Allocate Grants <#outreach-education-committee-s-authority-to-allocate-grants>`_

- `4   Treasurer Report <#treasurer-report>`_

- `5   Progress Reports <#progress-reports>`_- `5.1   Communication Status <#communication-status>`_  - `5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#honorary-associate-membership-webpages-links>`_  - `5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#infrastructure-committee>`_  - `5.4   Marketing Material <#marketing-material>`_  - `5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#moving-pypi-to-amazon-cloudfront>`_  - `5.6   PyCon Chair <#pycon-chair>`_  - `5.7   Sprint Committee <#sprint-committee>`_

- `6   PyCon UK 2011 Funding <#pycon-uk-2011-funding>`_

- `7   Python Brazil 2011 Funding <#python-brazil-2011-funding>`_

- `8   Annual Budget for the Outreach & Education Committee <#annual-budget-for-the-outreach-education-committee>`_

- `9   2012 PyCon Budget <#pycon-budget>`_

- `10   Other Business <#other-business>`_

- `11   Adjournment <#adjournment>`_

`1   Attendance <#id1>`_
------------------------

The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the
meeting: Raymond Hettinger, Marc-Andre Lemburg, Martin von L?wis,
David Mertz, Doug Napoleone, Jesse Noller, Tim Peters, Allison Randal,
Jeff Rush, Greg Stein, and Gloria Willadsen. Also in attendance were
Kurt Kaiser (Treasurer), and Pat Campbell (Secretary & Administrator).

`2   Minutes of Past Meetings <#id2>`_
--------------------------------------

The 18 July 2011 Board meeting minutes were voted on and approved. 

Approved, 9-0-1.

`3   Votes Taken Between Meetings <#id3>`_
------------------------------------------

There was one vote taken between meetings. 

`3.1   Outreach & Education Committee's Authority to Allocate Grants <#id4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The vote for this motion was deferred to an email vote from the
July 2011 board meeting. Due to a failure to meet the email voting
requirement which states that a &quot;super-quorum&quot; of 3/4 of the Members
MUST participate in the email vote, this email resolution failed. Only
8 of the required 9 votes were cast.

    **RESOLVED**, that the Outreach and Education Committee shall have
    authority to authorize PSF expenditure of up to US$5000 during the
    calendar year of 2011, to be spent and divided as the Committee determines
    best assists in promoting diversity with Python communities. Any commitment
    of PSF funds by the Committee shall be subject to the voting procedure
    adopted by the Committee and set forth in its July 2011 Committee report
    (`http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html>`_)

Email Vote Failed, 7-0-1.

`4   Treasurer Report <#id5>`_
------------------------------

The monthly Treasurer's Report was provided to Board members by K.
Kaiser prior to the Board meeting and produced from Quickbooks Online.

Here is an exerpt from the treasurer's report on a few of the activities
the treasurer has been focused on:

&quot;YTD income was down by 8K in July.  Please refer to the P&L for the full
details.  Some highlights:

    AR still reflects the 48K PyCon room commissions due to us. 

    Donations for the month were $1,053. 

    **MISSING**

Kurt concludes his report by revealing the financial business items he
plans to continue to focus his attention on, he said:

&quot;My focus is on PSF Sponsor invoicing, Federal taxes, the Associate
Member program, AR and AP reduction.  Also, look into a server
certificate for mail.python.org.&quot;

Board Discussion: 

J. Noller: &quot;&quot;I am digging into the CTE issues cited in the treasurer's report:
&quot;AR still reflects the 48K PyCon room commissions due to us.&quot; We have multiple
calls out to CTE.&quot;&quot;

`5   Progress Reports <#id6>`_
------------------------------

The following board reports were submitted to the board mailing list
one week prior to this month's meeting. Please see a summary of each
board report listed below and a possible board discussion at the end
of the report(s):

`5.1   Communication Status <#id7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

D. Hellmann, Communication Officer, reported on continued activities from
last month. He said:

    - Finding additional writers      I have been able to recruit a couple of new team members and we are working on catching up with the backlog of announcements.

Doug also reported on new activities for the month. The list of activities
showed the following:

    - July Election Results      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/07/july-2011-members-election-results.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/07/july-2011-members-election-results.html>`_

    - PyCon DE 2011 Funding      `http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/08/pycon-de-2010-funding.html  <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/08/pycon-de-2010-funding.html>`_

    - Added RuPy promotion to the python.org front page and posted on twitter.

    - We missed the window to publish a few announcements of funding for conferences that have already passed. Mike Driscoll is working on a retrospective post summarizing all of the funding we have provided for conferences over the last year. We will wait to publish until closer to the end of 2011.

As far as the ongoing projects for the month are concerned, he reported: 

    - Post about common trademark use.      *No progress*

    - Interviews with GSoC students.      I don't have enough staff or personal time to do this, so I think we're going to have to pass again this year. If the GSoC mentors or students want to write up anything about their projects, we can publish the details on the blog (or link to them elsewhere).

For tabled activities, D. Hellmann said: 

    - Writing about new PyCon website software.

    - Paulo Nuin is working on a post about the PyPI mirroring project.

`5.2   Honorary Associate Membership WebPages/Links <#id8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

P. Campbell, Honorary Associate Membership (HAM) WebPages Start-up
Project, reported on the current issues or blockages the project may
be faced with by saying:

&quot;We have been in the technical phase of the Honorary Associate
Membership (HAM) Project for the past few months. However, we
are beginning to see incredible movement toward getting our first HAM
subscription. We are almost there!!

So, hopefully, our first HAM membership signup will soon be on
the way once the HAM membership signup  and payment systems are completed.

As far as the continued activities from last month are concerned, she reported: 

    &quot;Since Kurt Kaiser, our treasurer, has been able to devote more time
    to the HAM project implementation and setup, we should be able to
    set the launch date soon.

    Please see the message from Kurt Kaiser?s July 2011 treasurer?s
    report regarding the current status of the technical phase of the HAM
    program implementation and maintenance&quot;:

    &quot;?Associate Member program: 

        PyTexas sponsorships are now being collected via CiviContribute. 

        Configured the HAM signup pages.  The text on these pages is
        preliminary and needs improvement. Integrated with our donation
        accounting system and tested.

        Next task: Create a front page with Associate Member sign-up
        information and decide how to present the HAM Membership to  the
        world, probably via python.org. Implement latter.?&quot;

`5.3   Infrastructure Committee <#id9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

S. Reifschneider, Infrastructure Committee Chair, reported on continued activities
from last month. He wrote:

    - Arc Riley has attempted to contact the pound-python domain owner but their e-mail address is invalid and so he's throwing in the towel, which I agree with.  He also makes the alternate suggestion of setting up &quot;irc.python.org&quot; to hold the information that was hosted on pound-python, which seems reasonable to me as well.

Sean also reported on the new activities for the month. H said: 

    - There are discussions about alternatives for professional management of the python.org servers and other resources. These are ongoing and should be moving forward in the coming months.

The activities planned for next month included: 

    - Put pound-python to bed and make progress on server management.

As far as the ongoing and the tabled activities are concerned, Sean reported: 

    - None.

`5.4   Marketing Material <#id10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M.A.Lemburg, Marketing Material Project Manager, reported the progress
on this project when he said:

&quot;We are currently talking to the various contacts and managing the
content acquisition, getting success stories, image data, quotes,
publication approvals, etc. Given that we have over 60 leads to
follow up with, this should easily produce enough material to
fill the brochure with lots of interesting stories and show
cases.

The success stories that won't make this edition of the brochure
will be hosted on the brochure website and are likely going to
be used for future editions.

Since we have already received enough material to start working
on the layout, we'll enter that next phase in the coming weeks.&quot;

M.A.Lemburg also reported on issues with the project, he said: 

&quot;As always, additional help in finding such interesting projects
would be greatly appreciated. Please consider signing up as
contact scout:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup <http://brochure.getpython.info/signup/contact-scout-signup>`_

and, if you're interested in the project, please consider signing
up to our newsletter:

    `http://brochure.getpython.info/ <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_

Thanks !&quot; 

As far as future plans are concerned, he reported: 

&quot;If the project goes well, we'll follow up with a Python flyer,
translated versions of the brochure and also consider creating
marketing material more targeted at specific user groups or
application fields.

In the long run, we'd also like to take the idea of producing
marketing material beyond printed material and develop booth
setups, giveaways, CDs, etc. to support conference organizers and
local user groups wishing to promote Python at their events.&quot;

`5.5   Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront <#id11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The project leader, M.A. Lemburg, Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront,
reported on progress for the month:

&quot;The project is currently on hold, since the team members don't have
time to put into this.

If anyone wants to join, please let me know.&quot; 

In terms of having any issues surrounding his project, M. A.
Lemburg reported no issues except that he just does not have enough
time to devote to his Moving PyPI to Amazon CloudFront project and
therefore, he wants to transfer the project lead on to another
interested party.

M. A. Lemburg also reported on future plans for the
project:

&quot;Check to see whether a trigger based approach to S3 syncing
wouldn't be easier to implement right from the start.&quot;

`5.6   PyCon Chair <#id12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, PyCon Chair, provided us with information on when and where
the next two PyCon US conferences will be held, in addition to the web
location of the official PyCon 2012. Please see below:

PyCon 2012: March 7th ? 15th, Santa Clara, CA
PyCon 2013: March 11th ? 21st, Santa Clara, CA
Official Site: `http://us.pycon.org/2012 <http://us.pycon.org/2012>`_

As far as the continued activities from last month, he reported: 

    1. PyCon 2012 Launch: Completed - We have fully launched PyCon US 2012, with an
    impressive website, a new code of conduct, diversity statement and a whopping
    33 sponsors. 25 of those sponsors signed up/agreed to sponsorship *before we
    had launched*. This is a testament to the team, the site and the hard work of a
    lot of people. It also shows that PyCon as a &quot;brand&quot; and sellable item for the
    PSF is an objective fact.

    2. The budget is &quot;completed&quot; - the budget, and it's details are being sent in
    a separate email to psf at python.org - it is not currently for public
    consumption.

    3. The adoption of `http://us.pycon.org/2012/diversity/ <http://us.pycon.org/2012/diversity/>`_ and
    `http://us.pycon.org/2012/codeofconduct/ <http://us.pycon.org/2012/codeofconduct/>`_ have caused some strife - but the team
    has accepted these, as has the majority of the community. We will be publishing
    the &quot;enforcement&quot; manual publicly as well.

    4. The team put together a PyCon 2012 Guidance survey:
    `http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/08/pycon-us-2012-guidance-survey.html <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2011/08/pycon-us-2012-guidance-survey.html>`_
    to help get feedback about PyCon early into the planning process for this year
    so far, we have 269 people who have started the survey, and 173 have finished
    it. We are leaving it open and mentioning it in a massive press push for 8/15.

Jesse also reported on the new activities for the month. He said: 

    - Negotiations with CTE will be accelerating shortly.

    - Negotiations for AV/Recording contracts will begin this month.  AV/Recording is a significant cost for the conference - there will be some potentially heated discussions around this subject.

    - Catering/etc costs may have some wiggle room, negotiating as we can.

    - A unified call for proposals is being drafted - this single announcement will ask for talks, tutorials and posters at once, we will start accepting all three types of talks the week of August 15th. This means we are ahead of schedule in this regard.

    - Discussions with, and tracking down of additional sponsors continues.

The last two PyCon US items reported by Jesse were the &quot;planned for next
month&quot; where he provided a list of the current Heads/Staff for PyCon 2012.

    Chair: Jesse Noller
    Co-Chair: Yannick Gingras
    Accountant/Sponsors: Van Lindberg

    Event Coordinator: Ewa Jodlowska/CTE
    Public Relations Lead: Unknown

    Tech Lead: Doug Napoleone
    Tech Co-Lead: Noah Kantrowtiz

    Program Committee Chair: Jacob Kaplan-Moss
    Program Committee Co-Chair: Tim Lesher

    Tutorials Chair: Stuart Williams
    Tutorials Co-Chair: Greg Lindstrom

    Financial Aide Chair: TBD
    Financial Aide Co-Chair: TBD

However, under &quot;tabled activities,&quot; he provided the following: 

    1. I am supposed to make a flight to Santa Clara and Montreal for site
    surveys; due to personal reasons I will not be able to do so until
    later this summer.

`5.7   Sprint Committee <#id13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J. Noller, Sprint Committee Chair, provided a summary of activities for
this month, he reported:

&quot;We've received two new sprints and had one sprint occur, for which
we're waiting on receipts.&quot;

As far as the continued activities for the month, he said: 

&quot;Waiting on receipts from PyLadies sprint. PyOhio joins the list of
recent sprints which haven't yet asked for reimbursement.&quot;

On his report of the new activities for the month, J. Noller said: 

&quot;We've signed on two more sprints; PyCon Finland in October, and a
sprint in Poland organized with the help of PyLadies. Both sprints
have requested our maximum reimbursement of $300 USD, which we've
awarded.&quot;

`6   PyCon UK 2011 Funding <#id14>`_
------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of US$1500 to the organizers
    of the PyCon UK 2011 conference to be held from September 24th to
    September 25th in Coventry UK.

Approved, 11-0-0.

`7   Python Brazil 2011 Funding <#id15>`_
-----------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF offers a grant of US$1600 to the organizers
    of the Python Brazil 2011 conference to be held from September 29th to
    October 1st in S?o Paulo.

Approved, 10-0-1.

`8   Annual Budget for the Outreach & Education Committee <#id16>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

    **RESOLVED**, that The Outreach and Education Committee shall have authority to
    authorize PSF expenditure of up to US$5000 per calendar year, to be spent and
    divided as the Committee determines best assists in promoting diversity with Python
    communities.  Any commitment of PSF funds by the Committee shall be subject to the
    voting procedure adopted by the Committee and set forth in its July 2011 Committee
    report (`http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-July/015026.html>`_)

Approved, 7-3-1.

`9   2012 PyCon Budget <#id17>`_
--------------------------------

The board discussed the budget for PyCon 2012 and also agreed on the
proper mechanism that will be used to publish the final budget draft.

    **RESOLVED**, that the PSF approve the 2012 PyCon budget presented by J. Noller.
    `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-August/015283.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-August/015283.html>`_
    `http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-August/015282.html <http://mail.python.org/mailman/private/psf-board/2011-August/015282.html>`_

Approved, 9-0-2.

`10   Other Business <#id18>`_
------------------------------

N/A

`11   Adjournment <#id19>`_
---------------------------

- Mertz adjourned the meeting at 16:55 UTC.