Python 2.4.4
------------

    We are pleased to announce the release of
    **Python 2.4.4 (FINAL)**, a
    bugfix release of Python 2.4, on October 18, 2006.

    **Important:**
    2.4.4 includes a
    `security fix (PSF-2006-001) </news/security/PSF-2006-001/>`_
    for the repr() of unicode strings in wide unicode builds (UCS-4)

Python 2.4 is now in bugfix-only mode; no new features are being added. At
least 80 bugs have been squished since Python 2.4.3, including a number
of bugs and potential bugs found by with the
`Coverity <http://scan.coverity.com>`_
and `Klocwork <http://www.klocwork.com/>`_ static analysis tools. We'd like
to offer our thanks to both these firms for making this available for open
source projects - see their websites if you're interested.

See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for more details. 

`Python 2.5 <../2.5>`_ is the latest release of Python. This release of
the older 2.4 code is to provide bug fixes for people who are still using
Python 2.4. This is the last planned release in the Python 2.4 series -
future maintenance releases of Python will be in the 2.5 series, starting
of course with 2.5.1.

This is a final release, and is suitable for production use. There was
one change since the release candidate. This fixed a problem with cross-
compiling Python that was introduced between 2.4.3 and 2.4.4c1.

For more information on the new features of `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ see the
`2.4 highlights <../2.4/highlights>`_ or consult Andrew Kuchling's
`What's New In Python <http://www.python.org/doc/2.4.4/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_
for a more detailed view.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_

Download the release
--------------------

Windows
~~~~~~~

For x86 processors: `python-2.4.4.msi </ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.msi>`_ 

For Win64-Itanium users: `python-2.4.4.ia64.msi 
</ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.ia64.msi>`_ 

This installer allows for `automated installation 
</download/releases/2.4/msi#automated>`_ and `many other new features 
</download/releases/2.4/msi>`_. 

To use these installers, the Windows system must support Microsoft
Installer 2.0. Just save the installer file to your local machine and
then run it to find out if your machine supports
MSI.

Windows XP and later already have MSI; many older machines will
already have MSI installed.

If your machine lacks Microsoft Installer, you'll have to download it
freely from Microsoft for `Windows 95, 98 and Me <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=cebbacd8-c094-4255-b702-de3bb768148f&displaylang=en>`_
and for `Windows NT 4.0 and 2000 <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=4b6140f9-2d36-4977-8fa1-6f8a0f5dca8f&DisplayLang=en>`_.

Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/>`_ package,
available from
`Sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018>`_.
win32all adds a number of Windows-specific extensions to Python, including COM support and the Pythonwin IDE.

MacOS X
~~~~~~~

For MacOS X 10.3 and later: `python-2.4.4-macosx2006-10-18.dmg 
</ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4-macosx2006-10-18.dmg>`_. This is a Universal 
installer. 

The Universal OS X image contains an installer for python
2.4.4 that works on Mac OS X 10.3.9 and later, on both PPC and Intel
Macs.   The compiled libraries include both bsddb and readline.

Other platforms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

gzip-compressed source code: `python-2.4.4.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.4.4/Python-2.4.4.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `python-2.4.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.4.4/Python-2.4.4.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.4.4.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.4.4.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.4.4 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.4/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.4 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.4 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.4.3/whatsnew/whatsnew24.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.3 <../2.3/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.4.4 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/trunk/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.4.4/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.4.4/>`_.

- Documentation is available in Windows Help (.chm) format - `python24.chm </ftp/python/2.4.4/python24.chm>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``82d000617baaef269ad5795c595fdc58`` `Python-2.4.4.tgz </ftp/python/2.4.4/Python-2.4.4.tgz>`_
    (9531474 bytes, `signature <Python-2.4.4.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``0ba90c79175c017101100ebf5978e906`` `Python-2.4.4.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.4.4/Python-2.4.4.tar.bz2>`_
    (8158073 bytes, `signature <Python-2.4.4.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

    ``8b1517fdbf287d402ac06cc809abfad6`` `python-2.4.4.msi </ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.msi>`_
    (9668608 bytes, `signature <python-2.4.4.msi.asc>`_)

    ``e153f8e72e53b34694323321d1a6654c`` `python-2.4.4.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.ia64.msi>`_
    (8212992 bytes, `signature <python-2.4.4.ia64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``3b7a449a1ae321a1609912c1e507d005`` `python-2.4.4-macosx2006-10-18.dmg </ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4-macosx2006-10-18.dmg>`_
    (16744696 bytes, `signature <python-2.4.4-macosx2006-10-18.dmg.asc>`_)

    ``95540ad75b566a3934cad6b77fb6ebea`` `python24.chm </ftp/python/2.4.4/python24.chm>`_
    (3777664 bytes, `signature <python24.chm.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Anthony Baxter's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 6A45C816.