Python 2.5.6
------------

    We are pleased to announce the release of
    **Python 2.5.6**, a security fix release of Python 2.5, on May 26th,
    2011.

    The last binary release of Python 2.5 was `2.5.4 <../2.5.4/>`_.

This is a source-only release that only includes security fixes. The
last full bug-fix release of Python 2.5 was `Python 2.5.4 <../2.5.4/>`_. User are encouraged to upgrade to the latest release of
Python 2.7 (which is `2.7.2 <../2.7.2/>`_ at this point). This release
is the final release of Python 2.5; under the current release policy,
no security issues in Python 2.5 will be fixed anymore.

This releases fixes issues with the urllib, urllib2, SimpleHTTPServer,
and audiop modules. See the `detailed release notes <NEWS.txt>`_ for
more details.

See also the `license <license>`_.

Download the release
--------------------

Source code
~~~~~~~~~~~

gzip-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.6.tgz 
</ftp/python/2.5.6/Python-2.5.6.tgz>`_ 

bzip2-compressed source code: `Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.6/Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.

The bzip2-compressed version is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it.

Unpack the archive with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.5.6.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.5.6 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python. The source archive
is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need to build their
own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See the `highlights <../2.5/highlights>`_ of the Python 2.5 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.5 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ in more detail.

- A detailed list of the changes in 2.5.6 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/branches/release25-maint/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has not been updated since the 2.5.4 release: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.5.4/>`_

Files, `MD5 </download/releases/2.5.4/md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ``d1d9c83928561addf11d00b22a18ca50`` `Python-2.5.6.tgz </ftp/python/2.5.6/Python-2.5.6.tgz>`_
    (11608002 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.6.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``5d45979c5f30fb2dd5f067c6b06b88e4`` `Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5.6/Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2>`_
    (9821788 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.6.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Martin v. L?wis's `public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2.