Python 2.5
----------

    **Python 2.5 has been replaced by a newer bugfix
    release of Python**. Please download `Python 2.5.6 <../2.5.6/>`_ instead.

Python 2.5 was released on September 19th 2006. There's a bunch of
places you can look for more information on what's new in this release --
see the &quot;What's New&quot; section further down this page.

This is a final release, and should be suitable for production use. 

PEP 356 includes the schedule and will be updated as the schedule evolves.
At this point, any testing you can do would be greatly, greatly appreciated.

Extension authors should note that changes to improve Python's support for
64 bit systems mean that some C extension modules may very well break.
`This post <http://groups.google.com/group/comp.lang.python/tree/browse_frm/thread/7e55ac8f0ca175a0/69951264453fdfb2?rnum=1&_done=%2Fgroup%2Fcomp.lang.python%2Fbrowse_frm%2Fthread%2F7e55ac8f0ca175a0%2F69951264453fdfb2%3F#doc_69951264453fdfb2>`_
has some pointers to more information for C extension authors.

Please see the separate `bugs page <bugs>`_ for known issues and the bug
reporting procedure.

See also the `license <license>`_.

Download the release
--------------------

Starting with the Python 2.4 releases the **Windows** Python
installer is being distributed as a Microsoft Installer (.msi) file.
To use this, the Windows system must support Microsoft Installer
2.0. Just save the installer file,
`Python-2.5.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.msi>`_,
to your local machine, then double-click python-2.5.msi to find
out if your machine supports MSI. If it doesn't, you'll need to
install Microsoft Installer first. Many other packages (such as Word
and Office) also include MSI, so you may already have it on your system.
If not, you can download it freely from Microsoft for
`Windows  95, 98 and Me <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=cebbacd8-c094-4255-b702-de3bb768148f&displaylang=en>`_
and for
`Windows  NT 4.0 and 2000 <http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=4b6140f9-2d36-4977-8fa1-6f8a0f5dca8f&DisplayLang=en>`_.
Windows XP and later already have MSI; many older machines will already
have MSI installed.

The new format installer allows for
`automated installation <msi#automated>`_ and
`many other shiny new features <msi>`_.
There are also separate installers for Win64-Itanium users
(on XP/2003 64-bit Itanium Edition) -
`Python-2.5.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.ia64.msi>`_
and for Win64 users on AMD64 machines
(on XP/2003/Vista x64 Edition) -
`Python-2.5.amd64.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.amd64.msi>`_.

Windows users may also be interested in Mark Hammond's
`win32all <http://starship.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/>`_ package,
available from
`Sourceforge <http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018>`_.
win32all adds a number of Windows-specific extensions to Python, including
COM support and the Pythonwin IDE.

Users of Mac OS X 10.3 and later can install a universal binary (suitable for
both PowerPC and Intel machines) from `python-2.5-macosx.dmg </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5-macosx.dmg>`_ .
Download to the desktop and open the .dmg file to install.

**All others** should download either
`python-2.5.tgz </ftp/python/2.5/Python-2.5.tgz>`_ or
`python-2.5.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5/Python-2.5.tar.bz2>`_,
the source archive.  The tar.bz2 is considerably smaller, so get that one if
your system has the `appropriate  tools <http://www.bzip.org/>`_ to deal
with it. Unpack it with ``tar -zxvf Python-2.5.tgz`` (or
``bzcat Python-2.5.tar.bz2 | tar -xf -``).
Change to the Python-2.5 directory and run the &quot;./configure&quot;, &quot;make&quot;,
&quot;make install&quot; commands to compile and install Python.

    Since this is a new version of Python, you may want to use the
    &quot;make altinstall&quot; command instead of &quot;make install&quot; - this will
    install a &quot;python2.5&quot; binary without touching the existing &quot;python&quot;
    binary.

The source archive is also suitable for Windows users who feel the need
to build their own version.

What's New?
-----------

- See some of the `highlights <highlights>`_ of the Python 2.5 release.

- Andrew Kuchling's `What's New in Python 2.5 <http://www.python.org/doc/2.5/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html>`_ describes the most visible changes since `Python 2.4 <../2.4/>`_ in more detail.

- `PEP 356 </dev/peps/pep-0356/>`_ has information on a bunch of the new features added in 2.5, as well as pointers to the relevant PEPs.

- A detailed list of the changes in Python 2.5 can be found in the `release notes <NEWS.txt>`_, or the ``Misc/NEWS`` file in the source distribution.

- IDLE has its `own release notes <IDLENEWS.txt>`_, or see the ``Lib/idlelib/NEWS.txt`` file in the source distribution.

- For the full list of changes, you can poke around in `Subversion <http://svn.python.org/view/python/trunk/>`_.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation has also been updated: 

- `Browse HTML on-line </doc/2.5/>`_

- Download using `HTTP </ftp/python/doc/2.5/>`_.

- Documentation is available in Windows Help (.chm) format - `Python25.chm </ftp/python/2.5/Python25.chm>`_.

Files, `MD5 <md5sum.py>`_ checksums, signatures and sizes
---------------------------------------------------------

    ``bc1b74f90a472a6c0a85481aaeb43f95`` `Python-2.5.tgz </ftp/python/2.5/Python-2.5.tgz>`_
    (11019675 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.tgz.asc>`_)

    ``ddb7401e711354ca83b7842b733825a3`` `Python-2.5.tar.bz2 </ftp/python/2.5/Python-2.5.tar.bz2>`_
    (9357099 bytes, `signature <Python-2.5.tar.bz2.asc>`_)

    ``33fffe927e4a84aa728d7a47165b2059`` `python-2.5.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.msi>`_
    (10695680 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.msi.asc>`_)

    ``c9ebc47dfab4fdc78d895ed6ab715db0`` `python-2.5.amd64.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.amd64.msi>`_
    (10889216 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.amd64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``dec95012739692625939e3ec6572fa5f`` `python-2.5.ia64.msi </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5.ia64.msi>`_
    (12986368 bytes, `signature <python-2.5.ia64.msi.asc>`_)

    ``9ea85494251357970d83a023658fddc7`` `python-2.5-macosx.dmg </ftp/python/2.5/python-2.5-macosx.dmg>`_
    (18749464 bytes, `signature <python-2.5-macosx.dmg.asc>`_)

    ``d8bfc10c7fd6505271ef5c755999c7cc`` `Python25.chm </ftp/python/2.5/Python25.chm>`_
    (4160038 bytes, `signature <Python25.chm.asc>`_)

The signatures above were generated with
`GnuPG <http://www.gnupg.org>`_ using release manager
Anthony Baxter's
`public key </download#pubkeys>`_
which has a key id of 6A45C816.