Python 2.7.2
------------

Note: A newer bugfix release, 2.7.3, is currently `available 
</download/releases/2.7.3/>`_.  Its use is recommended over Python 2.7.2. 

Python 2.7.2 was released on June 11th, 2011. 

The Python 2.7 series is scheduled to be the last major version in the 2.x
series before 2.x moves into an extended maintenance period.  The 2.7 series
contains many of the features that were first released in Python 3.1.
Improvements in this release include:

- An ordered dictionary type

- New unittest features including test skipping, new assert methods, and test discovery

- A much faster io module

- Automatic numbering of fields in the str.format() method

- Float repr improvements backported from 3.x

- Tile support for Tkinter

- A backport of the memoryview object from 3.x

- Set literals

- Set and dictionary comprehensions

- Dictionary views

- New syntax for nested with statements

- The sysconfig module

See these resources for further information: 

- `What's new in 2.7? <http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/2.7.html>`_

- `Change log for this release <http://hg.python.org/cpython/raw-file/eb3c9b74884c/Misc/NEWS>`_.

- `Online Documentation <http://docs.python.org/2.7/>`_

- Report bugs at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org>`_.

- `Help fund Python and its community </psf/donations/>`_.

Download
--------

This is a production release.  Please
`report any bugs <http://bugs.python.org>`_ you encounter.

We currently support these formats for download: 

- `Gzipped source tar ball (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/Python-2.7.2.tgz>`_ `(sig) <Python-2.7.2.tgz.asc>`_

- `Bzipped source tar ball (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/Python-2.7.2.tar.bz2>`_ `(sig) <Python-2.7.2.tar.bz2.asc>`_

- `XZ source tar ball (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/Python-2.7.2.tar.xz>`_ `(sig) <Python-2.7.2.tar.xz.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI Installer (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.msi>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows x86 MSI program database (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2-pdb.zip>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 MSI Installer (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.amd64.msi>`_ `[1] <#id5>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2.amd64.msi.asc>`_

- `Windows X86-64 program database (2.7.2) </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.amd64-pdb.zip>`_ `[1] <#id5>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2.amd64-pdb.zip.asc>`_

- `Mac OS X 64-bit/32-bit x86-64/i386 Installer (2.7.2) for Mac OS X 10.6 and 10.7 </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2-macosx10.6.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id6>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2-macosx10.6.dmg.asc>`_. [You may need an updated Tcl/Tk install to run IDLE or use Tkinter, see note 2 for instructions.]

- `Mac OS X 32-bit i386/PPC Installer (2.7.2) for Mac OS X 10.3 through 10.6 </ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2-macosx10.3.dmg>`_ `[2] <#id6>`_ `(sig) <python-2.7.2-macosx10.3.dmg.asc>`_.

The source tarballs are signed with Benjamin Peterson's key (fingerprint: 12EF
3DC3 8047 DA38 2D18 A5B9 99CD EA9D A413 5B38). The Windows installer was signed
by Martin von L?wis' public key, which has a key id of 7D9DC8D2. The Mac
installers were signed with Ned Deily's key, which has a key id of 6F5E1540.
The public keys are located on the `download page </download#pubkeys>`_.

MD5 checksums and sizes of the released files: 

.. code-block::

    0ddfe265f1b3d0a8c2459f5bf66894c7  14091337  Python-2.7.2.tgz
    ba7b2f11ffdbf195ee0d111b9455a5bd  11754834  Python-2.7.2.tar.bz2
    75c87a80c6ddb0b785a57ea3583e04fa   9936152  Python-2.7.2.tar.xz
    348bf509e778ed2e193d08d02eee5566  22041602  python-2.7.2-macosx10.3.dmg
    92bc7480a840182aac486b2afd5c4181  18632739  python-2.7.2-macosx10.6.dmg
    e78e8520765af3cbb1cddbef891830bf  16122946  python-2.7.2-pdb.zip
    89954c70f9eff948f43964ab5d1d5f8c  17204290  python-2.7.2.amd64-pdb.zip
    937e2551a5d1c37a13a5958c83a05e3f  16334848  python-2.7.2.amd64.msi
    44c8bbe92b644d78dd49e18df354386f  15970304  python-2.7.2.msi

**MISSING**
[1]  *(`1 <#id1>`_, `2 <#id2>`_)* The binaries for AMD64 will also work on processors that implement the Intel 64 architecture (formerly EM64T), i.e. the architecture that Microsoft calls x64, and AMD called x86-64 before calling it AMD64. They will not work on Intel Itanium Processors (formerly IA-64).
**MISSING**
[2]  *(`1 <#id3>`_, `2 <#id4>`_)* There is important information about IDLE, Tkinter, and Tcl/Tk on Mac OS X here.  Also, on Mac OS X 10.6, if you need to build C extension modules with the 32-bit-only Python installed, you will need Apple Xcode 3, not 4.  The 64-bit/32-bit Python can use either Xcode 3 or Xcode 4.