The Python Software Foundation   Python Conference Committee Report
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

December 2003 

David Ascher reports that he and Steve Holden had a phone call, and
Ascher, Holden, Jeremy Hylton, Neal Norwitz, and Itamar
Shtull-Trauring met on IRC.

Deadlines
~~~~~~~~~

- Jan 15th is the deadline for paper submission.
- Dec 15th is the deadline for the paper submission site to be up and running
- Feb 1 is the deadline for the PC to have decided on the accepted/rejected papers

Action items: Jeremy should make sure the websites get updated w/
this info, and Steve should probably send out an update to the lists.

Paper Submission process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Andrew Kuchling has a Quixote-based system which is up and running on
pycon.amk.ca.  It is currently being tweaked, but should be operational
before the end of the week.

Things that Andrew needs to do before Dec 15.  Action items:
- paper download (upload may work or not, it's hard to tell!)
- minor tweaks
- setting up backup
- linking w/ other relevant sites

NOTE: we'll be using the "Identify the
Champion" method for running the paper selection process.

Program committee so far:
- Christopher Blunck [blunck _at_ gst.com]
- David Ascher
- Jeremy Hylton
- Brett Cannon
- Aahz
- Steve Holden
- Garry Hodgson [garry _at_ sage.att.com]
- Pat Miller [patmiller _at_ llnl.gov]
- Sylvia Candelaria de Ram [cognite _at_ zianet.com]
- George Belotsky [questions _at_ openlight.com]
- Itamar Shtull-Trauring [itamar _at_ itamarst.org]

Action item: Steve Holden will setup a mailing list for the PC.

Sponsorship
~~~~~~~~~~~

David is in charge of sponsorship.  David has received lists of
contacts from various folks.  Action item: David will come up with a
sponsorship 'menu' and contact possible sponsors before Dec 15.

PR
~~

Nothing to report -- not seen as a priority given the conference. 
Nobody owns this AFAIK (Dan Arico has expressed interest though).

Website
~~~~~~~

Jeremy 'owns' the web and will coordinate the efforts of various folks
(Aahz, Trevor, pydotorg).

Sprints
~~~~~~~

Jeremy reports:
- Strong commitments for Zope 2, Zope 3, PyPy, and Twisted.
- Interest for C++ integration, .NET, Chandler, Mac Python, xml-sig and spambayes